
# 12. Japan
Japan has the most Michelin star restaurants in the world, so there is something undeniably special about its cuisine. There is a strong focus on fresh and seasonal ingredients, as well as perfection of cooking techniques and presentation aesthetics. I’ve been to Japan twice in my life, once to the mainland on a school trip when I was 11, and again on a Neuroscience course to Okinawa in my 20s. I don’t remember much about the food as an 11 year old, I was more focused on trying to identify beef in strange foods and avoiding it, as the mad cow paranoia had reached its height, and I had some vague idea that I would start frothing at the mouth if Japanese beef touched my lips. In my 20s I had some fantastic seafood in Okinawa, but that cuisine is quite distinct from mainland Japan, and to be honest I was more focused on trying to fit as much neuroscience and fun into the week as possible. One thing I learned about Okinawa is that there is a small karaoke bar by the beach that will sell you cocktails for a couple of dollars, that have around 15 standard drinks in them each (at a conservative estimate). Thus, my main culinary knowledge from visiting Japan that I can bestow upon you is “beware happy hour at the half moon karaoke bar”. Suffice to say, I hope to go back to mainland Japan soon to more thoroughly research the culinary scene…
“Bento” derives from a word meaning “convenient” and it basically describes a variety of food, commonly including meat/fish, rice and salad, in a container that keeps them separate. Bento boxes are commonly sold as “fast food” in Japan, and also made as lunch boxes for children and adults. The separation of different elements is a common theme in Japanese cuisine – there is a general preference to not have different dishes touching, so they are often served in separate bowls or in specially-designed dishes with barriers. I think that this is a reflection of the appreciation of simplicity and purity in Japanese culture, preferring not to sully the flavour or aesthetics of distinct dishes with others. The bento tradition has more recently morphed into “kyaraben”, where bento boxes are made to look like anime or manga characters. Pretty much any popular book, movie, game or musician that I googled with “bento box” gave me a bento decorated in that style – I encourage you to try it at home, I have a suspicion that it would make a rather spectacular drinking game. I started my bento with tempura vegetables (green beans, sweet potato, lotus root, mushroom etc.) and seafood (prawns and calamari). Tempura basically means coating ingredients in a flour and egg batter and then deep frying it very briefly so that you get a light crispy coating over fresh ingredients. Most recipes call for low-gluten flour. Yes, that’s right, much like a parable of modern society, in the world of tempura, gluten is evil. Apparently the specific issue with gluten in this case is that it tends to give doughs/breads the “stick togetherness” that we know and love, but which makes tempura batter a little on the heavy/oily side. I either couldn’t or wouldn’t find low gluten flour, so my tempura batter was indeed a little heavier than the best I’ve tried, but the addition of ice cubes to the mix apparently also helps to neutralise gluten’s powers, so I think that helped. After learning this fact I had a brief, albeit intense, conspiracy theory about the coincident rise of global warming and gluten intolerance, but it passed quickly. I also made chicken teriyaki, a technique that involves grilling food in a marinade of soy sauce, mirin, sake, onion and ginger, as well as salad, rice, prawn gyoza, edamame beans and some pickled ginger.
Instant ramen often gets a bad rap in Western society for being the mascot of nutritionless, soulless meals that glazy-eyed undergraduate students and “intentionally single” meninists furtively prepare in mismatched Tupperware under cold fluorescent lighting. But hot damn, it tastes good. The salt, the carbs, the oil, the MSG, it’s all perfectly designed to make our poor monkey brains say “more please”. My graduation from a glazy-eyed undergraduate student, however, saw me turn my back on instant ramen (mostly), and discover “the real deal”. Ramen is traditionally a meat broth with wheat noodles and various toppings. The main varieties of ramen broth are shio (salt, the most traditional), miso (flavoured with miso), shoyu (flavoured with soy), and tonkotsu (pork bone broth). I made a tonkotsu that had some shoyu elements, boiling chicken and pork bones for several hours, then adding dashi (a broth made of dry seaweed and fish that forms the basis of miso flavour). Usually dashi is made with kombu, a strong tasting kelp. However, after searching everywhere for kombu in Brisbane, I was reliably informed that it was no longer imported into Australia because “someone died of iodine poisoning I think?”. The net result was that I used a less authentic, but purportedly safer variety of dried seaweed. The secret of the noodles is that they are traditionally made with a type of alkaline mineral water typical of the lakes of inner Mongolia, which renders them yellow and firm. This firmness makes them ideal for soup, because they stay chewy and don’t disintegrate into mush like normal Italian spaghetti would. Fortunately, a lot of eggs can be substituted for alkaline mineral water from the lakes of inner Mongolia, which should save you a bit of money on plane tickets. I probably went a bit overboard in my ramen toppings, which runs counter to the Japanese philosophy of simplicity and minimalism, but I felt as if I was compensating for all of the unadorned ramen I scoffed in my youth. I included chasu (thin slices of barbecued pork), enoki mushrooms, bok choy, seasoned nori (seaweed), corn, picked bamboo shoots, green onions, and a soft-boiled egg.
Sushi and sashimi
Where to start with sushi and sashimi? It has probably been the most successful culinary export from Japan. There is a specialised sushi bar at my University cafeteria, and there was sushi for sale every day at my high school cafeteria – it’s become a normal day-to-day meal in Australia. Having said that, it’s not the sort of thing that the average person makes themselves, and being a relatively average person in many ways, I too had never made it. Sushi describes preparations of a specially flavoured rice (called “shari” or “sumeshi”) served in a variety of ways, primarily with seafood, but also with meats and vegetables, and almost always in a roll. Sashimi, on the other hand, describes very thinly sliced raw fish, often also with rice. I suppose now is a good time to confess something to you – I’ve never been a big fan of rice. I have always been partial to a decent risotto now and again, and fried rice can be tasty, but I generally regarded rice as a bland, boring substance that dilutes the tasty stuff next to it. You need to know all of this to understand what I mean when I say that freshly made sushi rice is seriously good. I had to stop myself eating it by the handful directly out of the bowl. It’s made with short grain rice, and seasoned with rice vinegar, sugar and salt. The process is slightly tedious, but you end up with perfectly cooked rice that’s neither crunchy nor mushy, and that sticks together and moulds easily. I watched a documentary once on a renowned Japanese sushi chef “Jiro dreams of sushi”. If you are ever lucky enough to go to Jiro’s restaurant, he will serve you whatever he likes, and watch you until you eat it, the implication being that it’s important to eat it immediately because of the temperature. I thought this was intriguing, but perhaps a bit much (not to mention slightly passive aggressive), until I made my own sushi rice and understood how important temperature is. It’s traditionally served at body temperature (37 degrees celsius), and I can absolutely see why. Having only frequented Japanese food establishments within my price range, I hadn’t had fresh sushi rice at this temperature, but it makes a world of difference. Any cooler and the grains get mushy, the seasoning coagulates with the starch and changes flavour, and it starts feeling like boring old rice again. You should definitely put “eat proper sushi rice” on your culinary bucket list, even if it’s the only entry. I made my sushi rolls with assorted combinations of spicy tuna salad, avocado, cucumber, ginger, seafood stick, egg and raw salmon, as well as making inari, which are pouches of fried tofu stuffed with rice.. I attempted both the “nori outside” and “rice outside” styles of rolling. I have always had the impression that the “rice outside” varieties were fancier, and now I see the rationale – they are much more fiddly to made. I made my nigiri from thinly sliced raw salmon, avocado, raw tuna, prawn, omelette, scallop and roe, or octopus served on my amazing rice. Never have I been so stuffed full of such good sushi so cheaply! I really must make it more often.
Okonomiyaki means “how you like, grill”, and it consists of a savoury pancake topped with, well, whatever you like. Grilled. The okonomiyaki batter is usually made with grated yam, dashi, cabbage, green onion and flour. It is then fried in a skillet, and adorned with toppings such as pork belly, seafood, vegetables or cheese. I chose thinly sliced pork belly for mine, as well as picked ginger, green onions, katsuobushi, Japanese mayonnaise and okonomiyaki sauce. Okonomiyaki sauce is a bit like English brown sauce, but a bit more soy saucey and sweet. I’m not sure how else to describe it, but it’s super delicious – you can find it in most Asian grocery stores. Okinomiyaki is often described as “the Japanese pizza”, but it’s really more like a savoury pancake, omelette or crepe. I think it’s even better than pizza because the “dough” has cabbage, and I’m nuts for cabbage. This is a very quick meal to prepare, and although I don’t have any kids to road test it on, I suspect they would love it, and it might be a good way to expand their cultural repertoire. Another sure hit with the kids is takoyaki – a ball of fried dough surrounding a tender piece of octopus that originated in Osaka in the 1930s. Both dishes can be found sold by street vendors, are often served slathered in a sweet brown sauce, mayonnaise and katsuobushi, and end in “yaki” denoting the heavenly suffix meaning “fried”. The main problem with these foods is finding the strength to stop eating!

# 22. Taiwan
Taiwan is an island off the coast of China, which has had a long history of alternating rulership. It was first populated by indigenous people, after which it was part of China, Japan and then eventually primarily self-governing. As you might imagine, this has led to many influences on Taiwanese cuisine. Being a highly-populated island has also resulted in a reliance upon seafood of all varieties. A famous aspect of Taiwanese cuisine is “ xiǎochī”, which is a tapas-like tradition of serving a variety of substantial snacks. There are national celebrations of xiǎochī, and they are served in homes and restaurants alike, although they are most famously enjoyed at night markets. I love the idea of bustling night markets full of incredible exotic food, especially in a very hot place where I wouldn’t last long in an uncovered outdoor setting during the day… I must make plans to visit Taiwan!
Gua bao is a typical Taiwanese snack, which consists of a piece of meat and other fillings inside a steamed flat white bun in a clam shape (a folded circle). The most traditional filling is pork belly, although other fillings such as fried chicken, seafood, eggs and beef are also used, drawing the frequent comparison of gua bao as Taiwanese sandwiches or burgers. Gua bao is sometimes called by the nickname “hó͘-kā-ti”, meaning “tiger bites pig”, which comes from the bun creating a tiger mouth shape, with a piece of pork inside. I made my gua bao with pork belly, which I braised with shallots, soy sauce, rice wine, garlic, white pepper, ginger, sugar and five spice. I also included home-pickled carrots, pickled mustard greens, fresh coriander and ground peanuts and a sauce made from the reduced liquid that the pork was cooked in. To make the buns, I mixed plain flour, milk, yeast, salt, sugar and water and let the dough rise. I then shaped them into ovals and folded them, waited a little longer for them to fluff up again, then steamed them. I was very impressed with the buns; they were delicious and fluffy and very easy to make. In fact, I enjoyed the whole gua bao very much – there’s something about the combination of complementary textures and flavours that’s incredibly satisfying. No wonder gua bao are so popular!
Oyster omelette and fried chicken
The oyster omelette is an extremely popular dish in Taiwan, commonly ranked as a top favourite of tourists, especially as a treat in the famous night markets. It is thought to have originated from the Teochew diaspora out of the eastern Guangdong province of China, where it remains a popular dish. Small oysters are cooked with whisked eggs and sweet potato starch to make a thick consistency, which is then garnished with spring onions and topped with a spicy sauce. Fried chicken is always a crowd pleaser, whether it be battered or crumbed, from the USA, Asia or Eastern European Schnitzel. Taiwanese fried chicken is another night-market favourite in Taiwan, and has more recently become renowned internationally. It’s made from pieces of chicken (I used breast), marinated for at least a few hours in a mix of soy sauce, garlic, ginger, white pepper, spring onion, rice vinegar, chilli powder, sugar and five spice. The chicken is coated in plain flour, then egg, and a mix of sweet potato flour and rice flour and finally deep fried or shallow fried in piping hot oil. The result is an incredibly crunchy crust surrounding a tender piece of chicken. I haven’t tried to make fried chicken often before, but this had the crispiest crust I’ve ever made or eaten. I think the secret may lie in the final coating of sweet potato flour and rice flour, which for reasons unknown to me might impart a particularly crunchy quality. My final step of preparation was the seasoning powder, which is made by combining salt, white pepper, sugar, five-spice and chilli powder. Aside from the superior texture, I also thought the cumulative flavour profile of this fried chicken was better than other fried chicken I’ve had – aromatic, sweet and salty, and subtly spicy in ways that only Asian cooking can achieve. KFC addicts of the world, heed my words – this fried chicken is superior in all ways to the Colonel’s herbs and spices, and, what’s more, its recipe isn’t a secret!
Niu rou mian is an aromatic beef noodle soup that is considered a national dish to the extent that there is an annual festival where chefs and restaurants compete for the title of best dish. Although similar types of beef noodle soups also exist in China, the addition of soy sauce makes a version reputedly invented by Chinese veterans who fled to Taiwan during the Chinese civil war. I included slow-cooked beef brisket in a stock made with a lot of flavours, including scallions, ginger, garlic, star anise, cinnamon, pepper, fennel, cumin, onion, chilli, bay leaf, Sichuan pepper, five spice powder, ground coriander, sugar, rice wine, rice vinegar and soy sauce. The bad news is that this mix is a little overwhelming if you’re just starting out with Asian flavours, but the good news is that these ingredients are repeated a lot in Asian cooking, so I already had pretty much everything and it wasn’t difficult. I strained the stock after all of the flavours had been imparted, and then added the beef, fresh thin-egg noodles, bok choy, pickled mustard greens, scallions and chilli.
Lu rou fan literally means braised pork over rice, and has its origins in Chinese traditions of finely chopped pork and rice dishes dating back to the Zhou Dynasty around 1000 BC. In China, the meal is considered to bea type of “gaifan”, meaning fast food or street food. The concept is thought to have been brought into Taiwan by immigrants from Southern Fuijan where it evolved, captured the adoration of the people and has since emerged as a novel recipe and an important national dish. Nevertheless, when researching a recipe for this dish, I discovered that, as with most things in the modern world, previous generations had already covered the basics while we frantically try to reinvent the wheel. This is particularly evident for a recipe found in The Book of Rites, a description of the Zhou Dynasty from the first century BC, which instructs: “Cook meat in a saucepan, and stir after adding seasoning until the sauce is mostly browned, then pour the meat sauce over cooked rice”. I always feel immensely humbled when I come across such an old recipe, perhaps because my contribution to cooking across space and time is suddenly revealed to be a mere blip along an immense span of human knowledge and creativity. Nevertheless, I proceeded to play my infinitesimal role in the cosmic dance, adding a few specific Taiwanese details to this ancient template, such as sautéing finely diced pork (southern Taiwan favours leaner cuts while northern Taiwan specialises in pork belly) and seasoning it with star anise, five spice powder, shallots, garlic, dark soy sauce, light soy sauce and rice wine. I also included shiitake mushrooms and hard boiled eggs, which absorbed the flavours of the sauce wonderfully. Then, just as the ancients portended, I poured the meat sauce over cooked rice, and served it with some blanched greens.

# 32. Southern China
In reality, China is so large and diverse that it is often divided into as many as eight cuisines. However, my restriction of 80 cuisines (and the fact that at some point I want to get my life back) means that I have split it into just two: north and south. The major distinction I have found between the cuisines of southern and northern China is that the former relies predominantly on rice as the staple carbohydrate (steamed white rice, congee etc), while the latter features much more wheat (noodles, dumplings, breads). This is predominantly due to environment; the south has warm and rainy conditions ideal for rice, while the north is dry and colder. The north also has simpler, blander food, while the south is known for its variety of spices and ingredients, as well as abundant seafood. Chinese food, especially Cantonese cuisine, is well known in the western world, evidenced by the fact that at some point there were even more Chinese restaurants in the USA than McDonald’s. This may be partly due to the early Chinese immigration to the USA and Australia during gold rushes. The dishes served in these restaurants, however, have evolved and adapted to suit Western palates, rendering most, if not all, dishes unidentifiable from their origins. The popularity of USA television in China has led to the establishment of USA-Chinese restaurants there, where they even import ingredients from the USA to specifically achieve the right balance of fusion. Chinese food is also intrinsically linked to traditional medicine, and foods are often classified into three categories: cooling foods (such as tofu and celery), warming foods (such as chilli and onion) and neutral foods (such as rice and mushrooms). Some of these make sense to me (such as celery being cooling and chilli being warming), but I don’t know how others were classified. Certain imbalances of yin and yang, and therefore subsequent common ailments, can be diagnosed as the body being too cool and warm, and treated with the ingestion of the opposite category of food. I’m intrigued by the history of this custom, although a little intimidated that a second layer of judgement might be applied to my ingredient choices…
Steamed whole fish, congee and egg-drop soup
Steamed whole fish is very popular all over China, but especially during Chinese New Year. One of the reasons for this is that the word for fish sounds a bit like “abundance”, which may portend good luck for the year ahead. I used a small snapper and steamed it covered in ginger inside and out. Once the fish was ready, I poured a sauce of soy sauce and rice wine over the top, and sprinkled some coriander and scallions over the top. I then finished the dish by pouring some piping hot oil over the top of everything, which cooks the garnishes and releases their aromas dramatically, as well as giving the outside of the fish a great texture and flavour. Congee is a staple throughout Asia, thought to have originated with the Tamil people of ancient India and subsequently spreading across the continent. It is a savoury porridge made by boiling rice until it forms a thick creamy porridge. This very bland mixture can be eaten alone, usually by the sick, young or elderly, or combined with flavourings such as stock, meat, salted duck eggs, ginger, fish paste, pickled tofu, mushrooms, soy sauce, fried breadstick or fish to create a tasty meal or side dish. Congee is particularly beloved for breakfast, where its oft-fishy flavourings famously leave travelling Westerners missing their cornflakes. Give me congee over cornflakes any day! Egg drop soup is a simple preparation of chicken broth seasoned lightly with white pepper and scallions, to which beaten eggs are briskly added right at the end of cooking to create thin whip strands texturing the soup. I must admit, the ingredient list and preparation for this soup seemed so simple that my expectations for its outcome were not high, but I was astonished at how delicious such an easy soup could be. I will certainly make it again when I’m feeling lazy and need to empty some of the many litres of home-made chicken stock constantly occupying real estate in my freezer, and I think next time I’ll include corn kernels, a popular addition in China.
Char siu pork with prawn fried rice
Char siu pork, also known as Chinese BBQ pork, can be recognised by its distinctive sticky red coating. The overnight marinade is made by boiling honey, hoisin sauce, oyster sauce, soy sauce, five spice powder, Chinese rice wine, red food colouring and sesame oil in a saucepan. I then roasted the pork in the oven, continuing to baste all the way through the cooking process to ensure a thick sticky glaze. Fried rice is a recipe created from the desire to use up remaining leftovers, and can therefore include infinite combinations of ingredients. I made mine by frying up some shallots, garlic, Chinese sausage and carrots, then pouring in pre-cooked rice with some peas, rice wine and soy sauce. I added the prawns right at the end so that they didn’t overcook, as well as some sections of rolled-up omelette that I had cooked earlier. I could eat fried rice infinitely; it has a great combination of flavours, with every bite being a little bit different.
Seafood bird’s nest
China has such an immense diversity of dishes that it was even more difficult than usual for me to pick just four to represent even half of the country. Seafood bird’s nest therefore is merely a representative of a vast array of stir-fried dishes, with this one being particularly popular in Hong Kong, and one of many possible dishes commonly served during long and decadent banquets. I was drawn to choose this dish specifically because of the strange beauty of its contrast of the symbolic bird’s nest, made from deep-fried noodles or grated taro root, filled not with poultry or eggs, but with the seemingly contradictory plethora of seafood. I first constructed the nest by thinly julienning taro root, then deep fried these strands pushed together between two metal sieves. I was very impressed by how easy this process was compared to how perfectly the faux bird’s nest turned out! The nest can also be formed by deep frying thin noodles, but I rather liked the irregular and twig-like consistency of the shredded taro. To make the seafood stir fry, I combined rice wine, white pepper, cornstarch, a tiny drop of soy sauce, garlic, ginger, shallots, baby corn, sugar snap peas, carrots, broccoli, bamboo shoots, red capsicum and shiitake mushrooms with prawns, squid and scallops. I was initially worried that this combination would end up a little bland, but in actuality it was perfectly aromatic and subtle, letting the sweet and soft flavours of the seafood speak for themselves, lightly accented by ginger and garlic. Stir frying as a technique is thought to have originated in China as far back as the Ming dynasty in the 1300s, and possibly even from the Han dynasty in early BC. Over the centuries, the wok has been refined and oil has become cheaper and more available, as the delicious, fast and healthy technique has skyrocketed in popularity all over the world. In modern China, stir fries can be broadly divided into “chao” which involves a liquid and results in softer ingredients, and “bao” which describes a drier stir fry where the components become crispy. The magical quality of stir fries is described in China as “wok hei” roughly meaning “breath of the wok”. This describes the wonderful caramelised taste that basic ingredients take on, simply from being cooked in the manner, even without any other flavourings.
Sichuan chilli chicken
The Sichuan province is located in south western China, and is renowned for its strong, spicy food. One of the most famous flavours from this region is Sichuan pepper, which is a husk from a type of plant that is actually more related to the citrus family than chilli or black pepper, and is famous for causing a tingling, numbing sensation in the mouth, followed by extreme heat. Sichuan chilli chicken, also sometimes called kung pan chicken, is a stir-fry dish where chicken cubes are first coated in Sichuan pepper and five spice, then rolled in corn flour. This process ensures the chicken is tasty, and nicely browned and a little crispy on the outside. These are then flash fried in a wok along with garlic, ginger, dried whole chillies, peanuts, as well as Chinese rice wine and soy sauce. I served mine on a bed of steamed white rice and garnished with chopped shallots, and alongside some spicy blistered green beans, also common to the province. I have been gradually building up my tolerance to spiciness, having previously ordered everything mild like a total wimp. In the last few years, I’ve started really enjoying the numbing of my mouth with moderately spicy foods, although I’m still at amateur levels in the grand scheme of things. I therefore made this dish slightly milder than the recipe prescribed, but really enjoyed it. I’ll work up to extreme levels eventually!

# 65. Northern China
As covered in my “Southern China” blog post all the way back in week 32, China has many more than just two regional cuisines, but I’m determined to stick to 80 cuisines total, so I could only spare China two. While Southern Chinese cuisine is known for its hot spices, abundance of fresh produce, sweet sauces and rice-based staples, the North is relatively less spicy, focusing on flavours such as soy sauce, garlic, scallions, bean sauces, sesame oil and vinegars. The north’s climate favours wheat-based starch staples (noodles, dumplings, breads etc.) and it has a great diversity of pickling methods to make the most of the brief growing seasons between harsh winters. The people of China have long held the beliefs that northerners and southerners are quite different in their constitution and diet. Indeed, The Kangxi Emperor made the observation back in the 18th century that “The people of the North are strong; they must not copy the fancy diets of the Southerners, who are physically frail, live in a different environment, and have different stomachs and bowels”. Certainly, the harsh climate and limited variety of produce may have necessitated a tough constitution in the north, although I doubt the varied southern diet has had anything other than a nourishing effect on the locals. Despite the seasonal restrictions on produce, northerners strongly encourage the concept of yin and yang in all aspects of their food preparation: colour, smell, flavour and nutritional value. This principle describes balance in all things, especially the two forms of universal energy: dark, cool, soft and feminine versus white, hot, rough and masculine. Whenever I ask a Chinese person about a food, they often use the terms “hot”, “cold” or “neutral” to describe them, independent of their actual physical heat at the time. These are, to my understanding, the best English approximations to describe foods that belong to different categories of energy. I remain mystified as to how each food is categorised, and how everybody seems to know. Do they learn huge tables in school!? If my meals this week reached a balance between yin and yang, it is therefore purely by accident, or perhaps by following template recipes designed by wiser folk than me. Nevertheless, I certainly felt balanced and nourished by the end of the week, so perhaps that’s all that matters?
Hot pot is one of those fabulous dishes like “barbecue” that describes an occasion more than a specific dish. Friends and family gather around a pot of soup stock, with a heat source under it all the while, and place raw ingredients of their choice into the pot, fishing each out and eating them whenever they’re done cooking, then adding another little morsel of their choice, and so on. The practice is thought to have originated over 1000 years ago in Northern China, where Mongolian horsemen rode the open plains, using their metal helmets as bowls to boil broth over open fires under the stars, to which they would add various sliced meats. Nowadays, Chinese hot pot is beloved and practised all over the country, and there are regional variations in both the stock and ingredients depending on local availability and preference. The stock can feature any variety of flavours and spices, from a very hot peppery version from the Sichuan province, to plainer salted fragrant stocks in the North. I made my stock with a wide variety of mushrooms, cabbage and vegetable stock, the use of fermented cabbage being particular to the Manchurian region of Northern China. The ingredients to be cooked in the stock are similarly unlimited, with all vegetables, fungi, meats, seafood, noodles and tofu being potential candidates for hot pot cooking. These could be thinly sliced, needing only brief immersion to be cooked (and avoiding the hassle of fishing them out), or chopped into chunks, abandoned in the soup and potentially stolen by a predatory fellow diner later in the evening. I included some traditional options, such as lotus root, Chinese greens, bean sprouts, shrimp, thinly sliced pork, fish balls, thin glass noodles, cabbage, tofu, mixed mushrooms, cress, baby corn, carrot, edamame beans and radishes. Although not pictured, hot pots usually also include bowls of dipping sauce, including combinations of oils, soys, chilli, vinegar etc, which the ingredients are further flavoured with just before consumption. The etiquette of hot pot seems to be dependent on the familiarity of your company, as well as possibly the degree of hunger and alcohol consumption that precedes the event. For example, netted spoons are usually provided with the hot pot to fish out dropped ingredients in an efficient and dignified manner, and some diners would prefer that personal chopsticks never touch the broth for fear of germs. However, I had the good fortune to once share a hot pot with a Chinese family, and vividly recall the hilarious chaos of fishing out lost items with chopsticks, competing for that perfectly cooked prawn with your jostling neighbour, as the absolute highlight of the evening. Not only is the communal experience of hot pot good for the mind and soul, but the meal itself is quite healthy – balanced, warming, and cooked without oil or frying.
Peking duck pancake and tea eggs
Peking duck is often considered one of the national dishes of China, and originates from the province of Beijing, previously called Peking, where there now stands an entire museum devoted to the dish. Chinese roast duck can be traced back to the 5th century AD, but Peking duck as we know it today, is thought to have been developed during the Ming Dynasty, around the 15th century AD. Throughout the centuries, Peking duck has been particularly beloved by the ruling classes, although these days you can find the dish almost anywhere, including Chinese KFCs. Peking duck is cooked by first pumping air under the skin to separate it from the fat and ensure a light, crispy texture. The duck is then soaked in boiling water, hang-dried, and glazed with a sugary spiced syrup. After hanging for a day or so, the duck is roasted until the skin is golden-red and shiny. Two major roasting styles exist, the first on a low heat in a closed oven, which allows infusing of the fat and flesh to create very juicy meat. The second is at a very high heat in an open oven, which melts the fat away from the duck entirely, leaving an incredibly crispy skin and leaner meat. The duck is traditionally served in three steps: first the skin alone, before it gets cold and less crispy. Second is served the choicest parts of meat, usually in pancakes with spring onions, cucumber and sweet bean or hoisin sauce, as I’ve done here. The rest of the duck, including possibly the carcass, can then be cooked into a broth, or sautéed, and served last. The second part of this meal consisted of tea eggs, also sometimes called marble eggs for their pattern, which are popular in North-East China, and are made by first soft boiling eggs (in this case quail eggs), then gently cracking their shells all over, without removing them. The eggs are then submerged in a marinade of black tea, soy sauce, rice wine, Szechuan peppercorns and sweet spices such as star anise, cloves and cinnamon. This preparation is left overnight (or longer) until the dark liquid has made beautiful fractured patterns through the cracks of the shell. When researching meals for this week, I was entranced by the beauty of these eggs, and was particularly drawn to the combination of the perfect oblong shape marred by the chaotic spider webs of trauma. However, as much as I researched, I couldn’t work out why some tea egg pictures online had perfectly sharp clear patterns, while others looked a little faded and muddied. Nevertheless, I persisted, and upon peeling my eggs the next day quickly discovered the secret nobody was mentioning. The thin membrane between the shell and the egg becomes starkly patterned by this technique, while the egg flesh underneath is stained in a more diffuse (and less pleasing) way. This means that, to obtain the beautiful eggs of my dreams, I would need to peel all of the shell off without ripping the underlying membrane. Just as well I have surgically-trained hands and patience! I was suddenly glad that I’d chosen the tiny quail eggs rather than chicken eggs or, horror of horrors, enormous duck eggs. I left a couple of eggs unpeeled for the photo because I love the aesthetic of the speckled shells, just as I loved the taste of the aromatic tea eggs, and the succulent decadence of the multi-textural duck pancakes. It’s a classic for a reason!
“But Laura”, I hear you cry, “what’s the difference between dim sum and yum cha?” I’m glad you asked, because before this week, I didn’t know the difference myself! Where I grew up, in Australia, I always heard the term dim sum being used to refer to a single dumpling. However, in China, dim sum refers to a meal of small portions of food served in bamboo steamers or on small plates, which popularly includes dumplings, though not exclusively. There is often an array of dim sum on offer, which may have inspired its name, meaning “ordering from the heart”, maybe referring to the opportunity to eat whatever your heart desires. However, the name could also be interpreted as “touch the heart”, perhaps referring to the small portions that are not individually meant to fill the stomach, but rather touch the heart. What a beautiful and layered language! If this practice sounds more like yum cha to you, that’s because yum cha describes the entire occasion of eating dim sum, often from circling push carts, along with drinking copious amounts of tea over a social and leisurely brunch, where families and friends can try a little bit of many delicious things. “Yum cha” means “drink tea” in Cantonese, emphasising the importance of tea to the occasion. The tradition of yum cha arose in Chinese tea houses catering to merchants travelling along the ancient Silk Road. Although these days it is particularly synonymous with Southern China, I include it in the Northern region because it’s popular all over the country, but also because dumplings, especially ones that are steamed with wheat-based wrappers, are more traditionally associated with the north. A range of customs have arisen surrounding communal eating and tea drinking, including how to politely serve and thank others at your table, and signals to the establishment staff that more tea might be required. One particularly rude act is to fill a teacup to its full capacity, with 80% thought to be a much more genteel volume. Indeed, there is a proverb that insists “a full cup of tea is fraud, but a full cup of alcohol is a sign of respect”. In my dim sum, I included (clockwise from the top): scallion pancakes, chāshāo bāo (barbecue pork buns), xiā jiǎo (shrimp dumpling), steamed Chinese broccoli with oyster sauce, luóbo gāo (turnip cake), xiǎolóngbāo (dumpling filled with meat and soupy broth), and in the middle shāomài (open-topped pork and prawn dumplings). I also ate this meal with friends, and, although not pictured, drank lots of jasmine tea, so I suppose all together it qualifies as yum cha!
Zhajiangmian literally means “fried sauce noodles”, and describes a dish of thick hand-pulled wheat noodles, stir fried in a sauce made of small pieces of pork with fermented yellow soy bean paste. The noodles are usually topped with slices of fresh or pickled vegetables, such as bean sprouts, cucumbers, carrots or radishes. The dish is thought to have originated with the working classes of Northern China, as the strong taste of fermented soy bean paste meant that you would only need a small amount to make a big bowl of cheap noodles into a rich, filling and flavoursome meal. Noodles have been a staple in China for over 4000 years according to a 2005 report from a team of archaeologists, who found an earthenware bowl containing evidence of hand-pulled noodles. Zhajiangmian is particularly popular in Beijing, where there are entire restaurants exclusively dedicated to the dish. These restaurants are usually very traditional, featuring grey brick walls decorated with the imperial red and gold colours and ancient, simple furniture. Diners can therefore step back in time to the Beijing of old, including feasting on traditional noodle fare. I loved the zhajiangmian – they were bursting with flavour but still with the strong feel of homely comfort food nestling underneath.

# 71. Korea
I will preface this week by saying that I have not previously had much experience eating Korean food, but I was absolutely floored by how much I loved it. The heavy use of vegetables with varied simple flavourings, such as chilli, fermentation, vinegar and soy, produced gob-smacking taste sensations. Also, after stuffing myself on this cuisine all week I happened to lose weight without trying, which may be coincidence or a testament to its healthful properties. Korean food is based upon the combination of rice or noodles, vegetables and meat, flavoured with ingredients/techniques such as chilli, sesame oil, fermented bean paste, soy sauce, garlic, ginger, pepper, fermentation and pickling. The divide between North and South Korea in modern times is dramatic and fraught with misery for many, although it has only been thus for 70 years, and therefore a lot of the culinary traditions are shared between the regions. Before the divide of north and south in 1948, Korea was divided into eight provinces, and although there were commonalities between them, they also each had their own particular taste preferences and environmental conditions suited to the production of specific ingredients. Food is an important part of Korean culture, and plays an integral part in the four big family celebrations: coming-of-age, wedding, funeral and ancestral rite. In each of these, specific recipes are displayed in particular spatial and temporal patterns, all of which carry deep spiritual significance to the celebration. Korean culture also carries a great weight of rules of etiquette around eating: for example, that the elders of the family must be served and must eat first, with conversation generally discouraged; and one should not lift the bowl or plate from the table while eating. There are also more specific sayings containing words of wisdom regarding dining etiquette, such as “don’t eat so slowly as to appear as if it’s against your will, nor so fast as if to be stealing another’s food”, “don’t speak of disgusting things while eating”, or, my favourite “upon sighting a fat cow, goat, pig or chicken, do not immediately speak of slaughtering, cooking or consuming it”. I think the latter is actually a useful motto that could be more broadly applied to life, advising consideration and reflection before speaking immediately of your desires and impulses.
Bibimbap literally means “mixed rice” and describes a dish of cooked white rice topped with varieties of cooked, pickled or fermented vegetables, a sauce (commonly with a basis of gochujang, fermented soy bean and chilli paste), and egg. The dish is traditionally served in a hot stone bowl, and the egg or egg yolk is often served raw, then stirred through the piping hot dish to cook it to a rich and creamy consistency. However, for those churlish about the concept of raw egg, a fried egg is commonly substituted. Bibimbap is traditionally served on the eve of the lunar New Year, as a way to use up all of the leftover side dishes in the house and therefore start anew in all aspects. However, there are also origin stories of bibimbap in farming communities to feed masses of hungry workers, as a between-meal snack for royalty, and mixing varied food offerings at an ancestral rite (jesa) in a bowl, as part of the memorial ceremony to deceased ancestors. In my bibimbap I included some sautéed beef mince flavoured with soy sauce, ginger and garlic, dried seaweed, pickled cucumber, stir fried zucchini, sautéed spinach, gochujang-based chilli sauce, sautéed carrot, blanched bean sprouts and shitake mushrooms, with piping hot rice and a raw egg yolk. The dish is notorious for its beautiful presentation, with all the varied ingredients delicately arranged in aesthetically pleasing clumps of colour; however it is essential that the whole thing be roughly mixed together into a mess before consumption. There’s something pleasing in the necessary transience of this beautiful dish – it must be destroyed soon after being served to properly cook the raw egg yolk, so your enjoyment of its aesthetics needs to be brief and intense! Within the colour combinations, however, lies complex symbolism, with black/brown representing the north and kidneys, red or orange for the south and heart, green symbolising the east and liver, white for the west and lungs and yellow for the centre or stomach. A balance of these would therefore result in a balance between all of these forces and the healthiest and most delicious bibimbap.
One simply cannot discuss Korean cuisine without mentioning the indisputable national food: kimchi. Dating back to the transition between BC and AD, over 2 million tonnes of kimchi is eaten every year in modern South Korea alone (around 18kg per person), and regular consumption of the food was considered so important to Koreans that millions of dollars were spent on the development of a special kimchi, which was designed to better survive the conditions of interplanetary travel, and was indeed eaten in space by a South Korean astronaut. A South Korean president once famously said that on an international trip he was missing kimchi more than his wife, and a national tragedy emerged from a 2010 cabbage crop failure, when kimchi prices rose by 400%, bankrupting families who, of course, couldn’t just stop eating the food in the same way they couldn’t very well stop breathing air. Kimchi is made from salted and fermented vegetables, most commonly cabbage, although popularly also radish. To the fermenting mixture is added flavourings such as gochugaru (chilli powder), garlic, ginger, scallions, and often some sort of salted seafood, such as anchovies. Every household will have its preferred recipe of kimchi, which also varies according to seasonal availability of ingredients, so the inclusion and proportions of these ingredients varies incredibly according to personal taste and kimchi variety (e.g. white kimchi does not contain any chilli). The other element that is important to imparting flavour to the kimchi is the fermentation process, where jars were traditionally buried in the earth in brown ceramic pots (onggi) to ferment at a stable temperature, although are usually kept in specially-dedicated kimchi fridges in modern times, which can control the temperature and length of time of fermentation and dramatically alter the taste. The process of fermentation is ideal to preserve vegetables and ensure a nourishing supply over the winter, while also imparting the incredible health benefits of all fermented food to the gut biome, as well as being low in calories and high in dietary fibre, vitamin A, B, C, calcium, iron and carotene. Although kimchi is served as a side dish with almost every Korean meal, it can also form the basis of main meals, such as kimchi-jjigae, a kimchi-based stew. In my kimchi-jjigae I included chunks of pork belly, kimchi, broth, spring onions, onions and firm tofu, stewed together into a chunky and thick stew. I was momentarily perplexed by the concept of heating up kimchi, and therefore killing many of the healthful bacteria, but then remembered that it hardly matters given the quantities of cool kimchi that Koreans (and I, this week), consume on a daily basis. Older kimchi is preferred for the stew, creating a more strongly flavoured stew, but I used the kimchi I made several weeks back that has been fermenting gently for a relatively short period of time.
Bulgogi and banchan
Bulgogi is one of the most famous examples of Korean barbecue, the name literally meaning “fire meat”. Very finely sliced beef is marinated in a sauce of soy sauce, sugar, sesame oil, garlic, pepper, ginger and onions, then quickly grilled over hot flames until cooked. Beef bulgogi is often eaten wrapped in lettuce leaves, and with other side dishes, which are collectively called banchan. Banchan is an important concept in Korean cuisine, describing the general practice of placing many distinct side dishes in individual bowls in the centre of the table, and eating communally from all of them. They are often accompanied by a meat-based centrepiece (such as bulgogi), bap (rice), soup or stew. The concept of banchan is thought to have originated from a Buddhist influence on Korea during the early centuries of AD, which decreased the consumption of meat for many years subsequent. A varied assortment of vegetable-based dishes therefore became the central point of Korean cuisine, even after the reemergence of meat in the culture. The varieties of banchan can be broadly categorised into namul (steamed, marinated or stir fried vegetables, seasoned with assorted combinations of sesame oil, vinegar, garlic, scallions, soy sauce and chilli), bokkeum (meat or mushrooms stir fried with sauce), jorim (a broth-based dish), jjim (steamed protein), jeon (pancake-based foods), hoe (raw dishes) and, of course, kimchi. For my banchan, I made kongamool (blanched soybean sprouts), pa muchim (spring onion salad), kimchi, steamed broccoli, braised potatoes and lotus root, stir fried eggplant, and oi muchim (spicy cucumber salad). The more individual dishes served for a banchan, the fancier it is, so although it took me half a day to make, I felt slightly inferior about my paltry offering of seven!
Naengmyeon describes a noodle dish served in ice cold broth, particularly popular during summer, in which the noodles are made from various ingredients, most commonly buckwheat. Naengmyeon is thought to have originated in North Korea, but after the Korean War, spread in popularity to the south as well. There are two main varieties of naengmyeon: bibim naengmyeon, served in a spicy chilli broth, and mul naengmyeon, served in a mild meat-based broth. I made mul naengmyeon, originating from Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea, first simmering beef in water and spices for several hours to make the stock, then cooling and adding slices of beef, cucumber, nashi pear, shitake mushrooms and a boiled egg. This delicious dish has recently taken centre stage in acts of diplomacy, as it was given as a gift from Kim Jong-un to Moon Jae-in during the first meeting between the leaders of North and South Korea early in 2018. Perhaps the ice-cold meal was intended to cool tensions between the regions?

# 75. Mongolia
Mongolia is a landlocked country bordering China and Russia, holding the title of most sparsely populated unitary sovereign state on earth. Flat grassy plains (steppes) cover most of Mongolia, with select mountain ranges bordering the north and west, and a desert to the south, rendering much of the land hostile to productive agriculture. As a result, Mongolia has long held nomadic and fierce people who rely hugely on their horses for transport, warfare and food, consuming a meat and dairy-heavy diet (the famous “red and white” food groups) and ferociously protecting what few resources they have access to. In no era was this ethos more apparent than the 13th century, when Genghis Khan’s relentless campaign swept through Asia, conquering and uniting neighbouring territories and disparate tribal groups, ultimately forming the Mongol Empire, the largest continuous land empire in recorded history. During this time, there are also stories that warriors would sometimes cut a small vein in the neck of their horses to drink the blood during desperately hungry times on the road. Nowadays, the population is predominantly Buddhist, perhaps contributing to the more peaceful pace of modern Mongolian society.
Buuz is a Mongolian dumpling filled with meat, most commonly ground lamb. The filling is simply flavoured with onion, salt and maybe garlic, with some subtle hints of fennel or seasonal herbs mixed through. This mixture is wrapped in a dough made of wheat, closed, then steamed until cooked through. The concept of the dumpling is thought to be borrowed from neighbouring China, as is the origin of the name “buuz”, reflecting the Mandarin word for steamed dumpling “baozi”. The dumplings are enjoyed throughout the year, but are particularly traditional during Tsagaan Saar, literally meaning “white moon”, which is the Mongolian Lunar New Year. At this time of year, Mongolian people perform a number of rituals, including burning candles at an altar, exchanging gifts with friends and families, dressing in the national costumes, and greeting each other by performing the “zolgokh” handshake, which involves grasping by the elbows, and asking “Amar bail uu?”, meaning “are you living peacefully?”. After these traditions, families sit down to eat traditional fare, including sheep’s tail, mutton, rice, curds, and, of course, buuz. Buuz is also eaten on the day before Tsagaan Saar, Bituun, which marks the end of the old year, and involves an extreme clean of the house and farmstead, leaving three ice cubes at the front door because a visit from the god Palden Lhamo is expected by horse, and the trusty steed may need a drink. Bituun is a somewhat more sedate affair than Tsagaan Saar, and involves gathering with close family and settling disputes and debts to start the new year afresh the next day. I think the delicious buuz are indeed the perfect accompaniment to both the difficult discussions and hard cleaning of Bituun and the jubilant festivities of Tsagaan Saar, as well as providing some sort of gastronomic continuity between the two days and therefore the two years, despite all the other upheaval occurring contemporaneously.
Tsuvian is a Mongolian meal of homemade noodles made with flour and water, stir fried together with mixed vegetables (such as carrot, onion, capsicum etc) and meat, usually mutton. The dish’s origins are thought to lie in Chinese noodle stir fries, although over the years tsuivan has morphed into a meal of its own. There is a Mongolian saying that goes “everybody loves tsuivan, regardless of age, sex, religion or social status”, bestowing this dish the honour of the great equaliser in Mongolian society. This concept of levelling societal hierarchy has also been prominent in Mongolian history around burial practices. Genghis Khan, for example, was buried, by his own request, without any markings and without the knowledge of any people regarding its location. Unfortunately this involved the massacre of the entire workforce that contributed to the building of the tomb and the interring of the body. Then, those that killed that workforce also underwent a massacre, just in case. At first I quite liked the humble concept of peace and complete anonymity in death from one of the most renowned people in history, but surely there are less extreme methods than mass murder to demonstrate the equality of all humans under the inevitability of mortality?
One of the first things that might spring to mind about Mongolian cuisine in the Western world is the concept of “Mongolian barbecue”, where meat and vegetables are cooked on huge solid iron griddles in restaurants, often to the delight of watching diners. This spectacular event, however, bears no resemblance to any cooking technique in Mongolia, and actually originated in Taiwan in the 1950s. The technique was originally labelled “Beijing barbecue” by the Chinese creator, but given the rising tensions between Taiwan and China at that time, he renamed it Mongolian barbecue to broaden the political spectrum of potential diners. The real version of Mongolian barbecue is khorkhog, a cooking technique where hot stones and water are placed in a container (such as a metal milk jug) with meat and vegetables. The meat, as seemingly for all Mongolian dishes, is commonly mutton, goat, or, if you’re lucky, lamb. If the searing hot stones aren’t quite enough to cook the contents, it can also be heated from the outside, often over an open fire. Once cooked, it’s traditional for diners to eat the khorkhog with their hands, also directly handling the hot stones to reap their purportedly healthful properties. I found the khorkhog to be wonderfully rustic, with the simple preparation of unspiced meat and unpeeled vegetables allowing the true nature of these ingredients to sing through uninterrupted.
Budaatai khuurga
Rice doesn’t grow well in Mongolia, as the climate is too cold and dry, but there has been a long history of importation from China to the south, meaning that it has been well and truly integrated into the cuisine. Meat, commonly mutton, is stir fried with finely chopped vegetables, flavoured simply with onion and garlic, and then combined with leftover rice. I saw some recipes include pieces of scrambled egg, so included it in mine as I love egg, but I’m still not sure quite how authentic it is. There are also recipes that are seasoned only with salt, and others that use chilli, cumin and soy sauce, and again I’m unclear about what a Mongolian granny would have to say about these potential deviations to tradition. Given that this dish is already a new interpretation of a borrowed recipe, I think we can permit a few small alterations?
