# List of Asian cuisines


This is a list of Asian cuisines, by region. A cuisine is a characteristic style of cooking practices and traditions, usually associated with a specific culture or region. Asia, being the largest, most populous and culturally diverse continent, has a great diversity of cuisines associated with its different regions.

Central Asian cuisine

Central Asian cuisine includes food from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Bukharan Jewish cuisine – cuisine of the Bukharan Jews with great influence from Uzbek cuisine. Kazakh cuisine – cuisine of Kazakhstan. Traditional Kazakh cuisine revolves around mutton and horse meat, as well as various milk products. For hundreds of years, Kazakhs were herders who raised fat-tailed sheep, Bactrian camels, and horses, relying on these animals for transportation, clothing, and food. Kazakh wine Koryo-saram cuisine – cuisine of the Koryo-saram, descended from Korean cuisine and influenced by the cuisines of the former Soviet Union. Kyrgyz cuisine – originating in Kyrgyzstan, is similar in many respects to that of its neighbors, particularly Kazakh cuisine. Traditional Kyrgyz food includes mutton and horse meat, as well as milk products. The cooking techniques and major ingredients have been strongly influenced by the nation's nomadic way of life. Tajik cuisine – traditional cuisine of Tajikistan, has much in common with Afghan, Russian, and Uzbek cuisines. Plov, also called osh, is the national dish in Tajikistan, as in other countries in the region. It consists of chunks of mutton, carrots and rice fried in a large cast-iron cauldron similar to a Dutch oven. Green tea is the national drink. Traditional Tajik meals start with a spread of dried fruit, nuts, halva, and other sweets arrayed on the table in small dishes, and then progress to soup and meat, before finishing with plov. Turkmen cuisine – cuisine of Turkmenistan. It is similar to that of the rest of Central Asia. Plov is the staple, everyday food, which is also served at celebrations. Turkmenistan is perhaps most famous for its melons, especially in the former Soviet Union, where it was once the major supplier. Meals are almost always served with naan, Central Asian flat bread, known locally as "çörek". Uzbek cuisine – cuisine influenced by local agriculture, as in most nations. There is a great deal of grain farming in Uzbekistan, so bread and noodles are of importance, and Uzbek cuisine has been characterized as "noodle-rich". Mutton is a popular variety of meat due to the abundance of sheep in the country and it is a part of various Uzbek dishes. Uzbekistan's signature dish is palov (osh) made with rice, pieces of meat, grated carrots and onions.

Bukharan Jewish cuisine – cuisine of the Bukharan Jews with great influence from Uzbek cuisine.

Kazakh cuisine – cuisine of Kazakhstan. Traditional Kazakh cuisine revolves around mutton and horse meat, as well as various milk products. For hundreds of years, Kazakhs were herders who raised fat-tailed sheep, Bactrian camels, and horses, relying on these animals for transportation, clothing, and food. Kazakh wine

Kazakh wine

Koryo-saram cuisine – cuisine of the Koryo-saram, descended from Korean cuisine and influenced by the cuisines of the former Soviet Union.

Kyrgyz cuisine – originating in Kyrgyzstan, is similar in many respects to that of its neighbors, particularly Kazakh cuisine. Traditional Kyrgyz food includes mutton and horse meat, as well as milk products. The cooking techniques and major ingredients have been strongly influenced by the nation's nomadic way of life.

Tajik cuisine – traditional cuisine of Tajikistan, has much in common with Afghan, Russian, and Uzbek cuisines. Plov, also called osh, is the national dish in Tajikistan, as in other countries in the region. It consists of chunks of mutton, carrots and rice fried in a large cast-iron cauldron similar to a Dutch oven. Green tea is the national drink. Traditional Tajik meals start with a spread of dried fruit, nuts, halva, and other sweets arrayed on the table in small dishes, and then progress to soup and meat, before finishing with plov.

Turkmen cuisine – cuisine of Turkmenistan. It is similar to that of the rest of Central Asia. Plov is the staple, everyday food, which is also served at celebrations. Turkmenistan is perhaps most famous for its melons, especially in the former Soviet Union, where it was once the major supplier. Meals are almost always served with naan, Central Asian flat bread, known locally as "çörek".

Uzbek cuisine – cuisine influenced by local agriculture, as in most nations. There is a great deal of grain farming in Uzbekistan, so bread and noodles are of importance, and Uzbek cuisine has been characterized as "noodle-rich". Mutton is a popular variety of meat due to the abundance of sheep in the country and it is a part of various Uzbek dishes. Uzbekistan's signature dish is palov (osh) made with rice, pieces of meat, grated carrots and onions.

Central Asian cuisine

Horse meat platter. Kazakh cuisine revolves around mutton, horse meat and various milk products.

A Tajik feast

Sturgeon kebabs cooking in Turkmenistan

Uzbek manti

East Asian cuisine

East Asian cuisine has evolved with common usage of oils, fats and sauces in the preparation of dishes.

Chinese cuisine – Traditional Chinese cuisines include Anhui, Cantonese, Fujian, Hunan, Jiangsu, Shandong, Sichuan, and Zhejiang, all of which are defined and termed per the respective regions within China where they developed. A number of different styles contribute to Chinese cuisine, but perhaps the best known and most influential are the Sichuan, Shandong, Jiangsu and Guangdong cuisines. These styles are distinctive from one another due to factors such as available resources, climate, geography, history, cooking techniques and lifestyle. Many Chinese traditional regional cuisines rely on basic methods of food preservation such as drying, salting, pickling and fermentation. Chinese cuisine originated in what is known as the Eight Great Traditions, though it can be generalized into northern styles that feature oils and strong flavors derived from ingredients such as vinegar and garlic, while southern styles tend to favor fresh ingredients that are lightly prepared. It has become widespread throughout many other parts of the world — from Asia to the Americas, Australia, Western Europe and Southern Africa. In recent years, connoisseurs of Chinese cuisine have also sprouted in Eastern Europe and South Asia. American Chinese cuisine and Canadian Chinese food are popular examples of local varieties. Local ingredients would be adopted while maintaining the style and preparation technique. Wine in China Great Traditions Eight Great Traditions – Regional cultural differences vary greatly amongst the different regions of China, giving rise to eight main regional cuisines, or Eight Great Traditions (八大菜系, Bā Dà Cài Xì) Anhui is derived from the native cooking styles of the Huangshan Mountains region in China and is similar to Jiangsu cuisine. It is known for the use of wild herbs, from both land and sea, and simple methods of preparation. Cantonese comes from Guangdong Province in southern China. Due to Guangdong's location on the southern coast of China, fresh live seafood is prominent in Cantonese cuisine. Canton has long been a trading port and many imported foods and ingredients are used in Cantonese cuisine. Char siu is a popular way to flavor and prepare pork in Cantonese cuisine. Fujian is one of the native Chinese cuisines derived from the native cooking style of the province of Fujian, China. Many diverse seafoods and woodland delicacies are used, including a myriad of fish, shellfish and turtles, along with edible mushrooms and bamboo shoots, provided by the coastal and mountainous regions of Fujian. Hunan, sometimes called Xiang cuisine, consists of the cuisines of the Xiang River region, Dongting Lake and western Hunan Province, in China. The cuisine is well known for its hot spicy flavor, fresh aroma and deep color. Common cooking techniques include stewing, frying, pot-roasting, braising, and smoking. Due to the high agricultural output of the region, ingredients for Hunan dishes are many and varied. Jiangsu is derived from the native cooking styles of the Jiangsu region in China. Food texture is often soft, but not to the point of mushy or falling apart. Other characters include the strict selection of ingredients according to the seasons, emphasis on the matching color and shape of each dish and emphasis on using soup to improve the flavor. Shandong in Chinese is more commonly known as Lu cuisine, and is derived from the native cooking styles of Shandong, an eastern coastal province of China. Possibly Shandong's greatest contribution to Chinese cuisine has been in the area of brewing vinegar. Hundreds of years of experience combined with unique local methods have led to Shandong's prominence as one of the premier regions for vinegar production in China. Sichuan is a style of Chinese cuisine originating in the Sichuan Province of southwestern China famed for bold flavors, particularly the pungency and spiciness resulting from liberal use of garlic and chili peppers, as well as the unique flavor of the Sichuan peppercorn (花椒). Peanuts, sesame paste, and ginger are also prominent ingredients in Sichuan cooking. Zhejiang is derived from the native cooking styles of the Zhejiang region in China. Food made in the Zhejiang style is not greasy, having instead a fresh and soft flavor with a mellow fragrance. Four Great Traditions – often considered the standouts of Chinese cuisine and due to their influence are proclaimed as the Four Great Traditions (四大菜系, Sì Dà Cài Xì). Cantonese Sichuan Shandong Huaiyang cuisine – often viewed as the representation of the entire Jiangsu cuisine. Chinese cultural subcuisines Chinese Buddhist cuisine Chinese Islamic cuisine Chinese cuisines, by region Anhui cuisine Beijing cuisine Chinese aristocrat cuisine Chinese imperial cuisine Liaoning cuisine Cantonese cuisine Chaozhou cuisine Chiuchow cuisine Fujian cuisine Guizhou cuisine Hainan cuisine Hakka cuisine Henan cuisine Hubei cuisine Hunan cuisine Jiangsu cuisine Huaiyang cuisine Jiangxi cuisine Manchu cuisine Northeastern Chinese cuisine Shaanxi cuisine Shandong cuisine Shanghai cuisine Shanxi cuisine Sichuan cuisine (Sichuan) Tianjin cuisine Tibetan cuisine Uyghur cuisine Yunnan cuisine Zhejiang cuisine Hong Kong cuisine is mainly influenced by Cantonese cuisine, non-Cantonese Chinese cuisine (especially Teochew, Hakka, Hokkien and the Jiangsu & Zhejiang), the Western world, Japan, and Southeast Asia, due to Hong Kong's past as a British colony and long history of being an international city of commerce. Fish balls, wonton noodle, egg waffle, and milk tea are some of the most notable dishes, snacks, and drinks. Macau cuisine

Chinese cuisine originated in what is known as the Eight Great Traditions, though it can be generalized into northern styles that feature oils and strong flavors derived from ingredients such as vinegar and garlic, while southern styles tend to favor fresh ingredients that are lightly prepared. It has become widespread throughout many other parts of the world — from Asia to the Americas, Australia, Western Europe and Southern Africa. In recent years, connoisseurs of Chinese cuisine have also sprouted in Eastern Europe and South Asia. American Chinese cuisine and Canadian Chinese food are popular examples of local varieties. Local ingredients would be adopted while maintaining the style and preparation technique.

Wine in China

Great Traditions Eight Great Traditions – Regional cultural differences vary greatly amongst the different regions of China, giving rise to eight main regional cuisines, or Eight Great Traditions (八大菜系, Bā Dà Cài Xì) Anhui is derived from the native cooking styles of the Huangshan Mountains region in China and is similar to Jiangsu cuisine. It is known for the use of wild herbs, from both land and sea, and simple methods of preparation. Cantonese comes from Guangdong Province in southern China. Due to Guangdong's location on the southern coast of China, fresh live seafood is prominent in Cantonese cuisine. Canton has long been a trading port and many imported foods and ingredients are used in Cantonese cuisine. Char siu is a popular way to flavor and prepare pork in Cantonese cuisine. Fujian is one of the native Chinese cuisines derived from the native cooking style of the province of Fujian, China. Many diverse seafoods and woodland delicacies are used, including a myriad of fish, shellfish and turtles, along with edible mushrooms and bamboo shoots, provided by the coastal and mountainous regions of Fujian. Hunan, sometimes called Xiang cuisine, consists of the cuisines of the Xiang River region, Dongting Lake and western Hunan Province, in China. The cuisine is well known for its hot spicy flavor, fresh aroma and deep color. Common cooking techniques include stewing, frying, pot-roasting, braising, and smoking. Due to the high agricultural output of the region, ingredients for Hunan dishes are many and varied. Jiangsu is derived from the native cooking styles of the Jiangsu region in China. Food texture is often soft, but not to the point of mushy or falling apart. Other characters include the strict selection of ingredients according to the seasons, emphasis on the matching color and shape of each dish and emphasis on using soup to improve the flavor. Shandong in Chinese is more commonly known as Lu cuisine, and is derived from the native cooking styles of Shandong, an eastern coastal province of China. Possibly Shandong's greatest contribution to Chinese cuisine has been in the area of brewing vinegar. Hundreds of years of experience combined with unique local methods have led to Shandong's prominence as one of the premier regions for vinegar production in China. Sichuan is a style of Chinese cuisine originating in the Sichuan Province of southwestern China famed for bold flavors, particularly the pungency and spiciness resulting from liberal use of garlic and chili peppers, as well as the unique flavor of the Sichuan peppercorn (花椒). Peanuts, sesame paste, and ginger are also prominent ingredients in Sichuan cooking. Zhejiang is derived from the native cooking styles of the Zhejiang region in China. Food made in the Zhejiang style is not greasy, having instead a fresh and soft flavor with a mellow fragrance. Four Great Traditions – often considered the standouts of Chinese cuisine and due to their influence are proclaimed as the Four Great Traditions (四大菜系, Sì Dà Cài Xì). Cantonese Sichuan Shandong Huaiyang cuisine – often viewed as the representation of the entire Jiangsu cuisine. Chinese cultural subcuisines Chinese Buddhist cuisine Chinese Islamic cuisine Chinese cuisines, by region Anhui cuisine Beijing cuisine Chinese aristocrat cuisine Chinese imperial cuisine Liaoning cuisine Cantonese cuisine Chaozhou cuisine Chiuchow cuisine Fujian cuisine Guizhou cuisine Hainan cuisine Hakka cuisine Henan cuisine Hubei cuisine Hunan cuisine Jiangsu cuisine Huaiyang cuisine Jiangxi cuisine Manchu cuisine Northeastern Chinese cuisine Shaanxi cuisine Shandong cuisine Shanghai cuisine Shanxi cuisine Sichuan cuisine (Sichuan) Tianjin cuisine Tibetan cuisine Uyghur cuisine Yunnan cuisine Zhejiang cuisine

Eight Great Traditions – Regional cultural differences vary greatly amongst the different regions of China, giving rise to eight main regional cuisines, or Eight Great Traditions (八大菜系, Bā Dà Cài Xì) Anhui is derived from the native cooking styles of the Huangshan Mountains region in China and is similar to Jiangsu cuisine. It is known for the use of wild herbs, from both land and sea, and simple methods of preparation. Cantonese comes from Guangdong Province in southern China. Due to Guangdong's location on the southern coast of China, fresh live seafood is prominent in Cantonese cuisine. Canton has long been a trading port and many imported foods and ingredients are used in Cantonese cuisine. Char siu is a popular way to flavor and prepare pork in Cantonese cuisine. Fujian is one of the native Chinese cuisines derived from the native cooking style of the province of Fujian, China. Many diverse seafoods and woodland delicacies are used, including a myriad of fish, shellfish and turtles, along with edible mushrooms and bamboo shoots, provided by the coastal and mountainous regions of Fujian. Hunan, sometimes called Xiang cuisine, consists of the cuisines of the Xiang River region, Dongting Lake and western Hunan Province, in China. The cuisine is well known for its hot spicy flavor, fresh aroma and deep color. Common cooking techniques include stewing, frying, pot-roasting, braising, and smoking. Due to the high agricultural output of the region, ingredients for Hunan dishes are many and varied. Jiangsu is derived from the native cooking styles of the Jiangsu region in China. Food texture is often soft, but not to the point of mushy or falling apart. Other characters include the strict selection of ingredients according to the seasons, emphasis on the matching color and shape of each dish and emphasis on using soup to improve the flavor. Shandong in Chinese is more commonly known as Lu cuisine, and is derived from the native cooking styles of Shandong, an eastern coastal province of China. Possibly Shandong's greatest contribution to Chinese cuisine has been in the area of brewing vinegar. Hundreds of years of experience combined with unique local methods have led to Shandong's prominence as one of the premier regions for vinegar production in China. Sichuan is a style of Chinese cuisine originating in the Sichuan Province of southwestern China famed for bold flavors, particularly the pungency and spiciness resulting from liberal use of garlic and chili peppers, as well as the unique flavor of the Sichuan peppercorn (花椒). Peanuts, sesame paste, and ginger are also prominent ingredients in Sichuan cooking. Zhejiang is derived from the native cooking styles of the Zhejiang region in China. Food made in the Zhejiang style is not greasy, having instead a fresh and soft flavor with a mellow fragrance. Four Great Traditions – often considered the standouts of Chinese cuisine and due to their influence are proclaimed as the Four Great Traditions (四大菜系, Sì Dà Cài Xì). Cantonese Sichuan Shandong Huaiyang cuisine – often viewed as the representation of the entire Jiangsu cuisine.

Anhui is derived from the native cooking styles of the Huangshan Mountains region in China and is similar to Jiangsu cuisine. It is known for the use of wild herbs, from both land and sea, and simple methods of preparation.

Cantonese comes from Guangdong Province in southern China. Due to Guangdong's location on the southern coast of China, fresh live seafood is prominent in Cantonese cuisine. Canton has long been a trading port and many imported foods and ingredients are used in Cantonese cuisine. Char siu is a popular way to flavor and prepare pork in Cantonese cuisine.

Fujian is one of the native Chinese cuisines derived from the native cooking style of the province of Fujian, China. Many diverse seafoods and woodland delicacies are used, including a myriad of fish, shellfish and turtles, along with edible mushrooms and bamboo shoots, provided by the coastal and mountainous regions of Fujian.

Hunan, sometimes called Xiang cuisine, consists of the cuisines of the Xiang River region, Dongting Lake and western Hunan Province, in China. The cuisine is well known for its hot spicy flavor, fresh aroma and deep color. Common cooking techniques include stewing, frying, pot-roasting, braising, and smoking. Due to the high agricultural output of the region, ingredients for Hunan dishes are many and varied.

Jiangsu is derived from the native cooking styles of the Jiangsu region in China. Food texture is often soft, but not to the point of mushy or falling apart. Other characters include the strict selection of ingredients according to the seasons, emphasis on the matching color and shape of each dish and emphasis on using soup to improve the flavor.

Shandong in Chinese is more commonly known as Lu cuisine, and is derived from the native cooking styles of Shandong, an eastern coastal province of China. Possibly Shandong's greatest contribution to Chinese cuisine has been in the area of brewing vinegar. Hundreds of years of experience combined with unique local methods have led to Shandong's prominence as one of the premier regions for vinegar production in China.

Sichuan is a style of Chinese cuisine originating in the Sichuan Province of southwestern China famed for bold flavors, particularly the pungency and spiciness resulting from liberal use of garlic and chili peppers, as well as the unique flavor of the Sichuan peppercorn (花椒). Peanuts, sesame paste, and ginger are also prominent ingredients in Sichuan cooking.

Zhejiang is derived from the native cooking styles of the Zhejiang region in China. Food made in the Zhejiang style is not greasy, having instead a fresh and soft flavor with a mellow fragrance.

Four Great Traditions – often considered the standouts of Chinese cuisine and due to their influence are proclaimed as the Four Great Traditions (四大菜系, Sì Dà Cài Xì). Cantonese Sichuan Shandong Huaiyang cuisine – often viewed as the representation of the entire Jiangsu cuisine.

Cantonese

Sichuan

Shandong

Huaiyang cuisine – often viewed as the representation of the entire Jiangsu cuisine.

Chinese cultural subcuisines Chinese Buddhist cuisine Chinese Islamic cuisine

Chinese Buddhist cuisine

Chinese Islamic cuisine

Chinese cuisines, by region Anhui cuisine Beijing cuisine Chinese aristocrat cuisine Chinese imperial cuisine Liaoning cuisine Cantonese cuisine Chaozhou cuisine Chiuchow cuisine Fujian cuisine Guizhou cuisine Hainan cuisine Hakka cuisine Henan cuisine Hubei cuisine Hunan cuisine Jiangsu cuisine Huaiyang cuisine Jiangxi cuisine Manchu cuisine Northeastern Chinese cuisine Shaanxi cuisine Shandong cuisine Shanghai cuisine Shanxi cuisine Sichuan cuisine (Sichuan) Tianjin cuisine Tibetan cuisine Uyghur cuisine Yunnan cuisine Zhejiang cuisine

Anhui cuisine

Beijing cuisine Chinese aristocrat cuisine Chinese imperial cuisine Liaoning cuisine

Chinese aristocrat cuisine

Chinese imperial cuisine

Liaoning cuisine

Cantonese cuisine

Chaozhou cuisine

Chiuchow cuisine

Fujian cuisine

Guizhou cuisine

Hainan cuisine

Hakka cuisine

Henan cuisine

Hubei cuisine

Hunan cuisine

Jiangsu cuisine Huaiyang cuisine

Huaiyang cuisine

Jiangxi cuisine

Manchu cuisine

Northeastern Chinese cuisine

Shaanxi cuisine

Shandong cuisine

Shanghai cuisine

Shanxi cuisine

Sichuan cuisine (Sichuan)

Tianjin cuisine

Tibetan cuisine

Uyghur cuisine

Yunnan cuisine

Zhejiang cuisine

Hong Kong cuisine is mainly influenced by Cantonese cuisine, non-Cantonese Chinese cuisine (especially Teochew, Hakka, Hokkien and the Jiangsu & Zhejiang), the Western world, Japan, and Southeast Asia, due to Hong Kong's past as a British colony and long history of being an international city of commerce. Fish balls, wonton noodle, egg waffle, and milk tea are some of the most notable dishes, snacks, and drinks.

Macau cuisine

Japanese cuisine is known for its emphasis on seasonality of food (旬, shun), quality of ingredients and presentation. Japanese regional cuisine includes a vast array of regional specialties known as kyōdo ryōri in Japanese, many of them originating from dishes prepared using local ingredients and traditional recipes. Sushi and sashimi are both part of the cuisine of the island nation. The Michelin Guide has awarded Japanese cities by far the most Michelin stars of any country in the world (for example, Tokyo alone has more Michelin stars than Paris, Hong Kong, New York, LA and London combined). Traditional cooking methods eschew the use of oils and fats, with a focus on featuring the delicate flavors of the natural ingredients. Due to an abundant seafood supply, the traditional Japanese diet featured minimal use of meat; however, modern Japanese cuisine includes an extensive variety of popular meat dishes. Japanese cuisine offers a vast array of regional specialties that use traditional recipes and local ingredients. Japanese wine Okinawan cuisine is the cuisine of the Japanese island of Okinawa. Due to the difference in culture, climate, vegetables and other ingredients between Okinawa and mainland Japan, Okinawan cuisine is very different from Japanese cuisine. The cuisine incorporated influence from Chinese cuisine and Southeast Asian cuisine due to trade. The sweet potato, introduced in Okinawa in 1605, became a staple food there until the beginning of the 20th century. An article about Okinawan food written by Kikkoman stated that Goya (bitter melon) and Nabera (luffa or towel gourd) were "likely" introduced to Okinawa from Southeast Asia. Since Ryūkyū had served as a tributary state to China, Okinawan cooks traveled to Fujian Province to learn how to cook Chinese food; Chinese influence seeped into Okinawa in that manner. The same Kikkoman article states that the method of distillation of awamori likely originated from Siam (Thailand) and traveled to Okinawa during the 15th century. After the lord of the Kagoshima Domain subjugated Ryūkyū, Okinawan cooks traveled to Japan to study Japanese cuisine, causing that influence to seep into Okinawan cuisine. Nagoya cuisine Ainu cuisine

Traditional cooking methods eschew the use of oils and fats, with a focus on featuring the delicate flavors of the natural ingredients. Due to an abundant seafood supply, the traditional Japanese diet featured minimal use of meat; however, modern Japanese cuisine includes an extensive variety of popular meat dishes. Japanese cuisine offers a vast array of regional specialties that use traditional recipes and local ingredients.

Japanese wine

Okinawan cuisine is the cuisine of the Japanese island of Okinawa. Due to the difference in culture, climate, vegetables and other ingredients between Okinawa and mainland Japan, Okinawan cuisine is very different from Japanese cuisine. The cuisine incorporated influence from Chinese cuisine and Southeast Asian cuisine due to trade. The sweet potato, introduced in Okinawa in 1605, became a staple food there until the beginning of the 20th century. An article about Okinawan food written by Kikkoman stated that Goya (bitter melon) and Nabera (luffa or towel gourd) were "likely" introduced to Okinawa from Southeast Asia. Since Ryūkyū had served as a tributary state to China, Okinawan cooks traveled to Fujian Province to learn how to cook Chinese food; Chinese influence seeped into Okinawa in that manner. The same Kikkoman article states that the method of distillation of awamori likely originated from Siam (Thailand) and traveled to Okinawa during the 15th century. After the lord of the Kagoshima Domain subjugated Ryūkyū, Okinawan cooks traveled to Japan to study Japanese cuisine, causing that influence to seep into Okinawan cuisine.

Nagoya cuisine

Ainu cuisine

Korean cuisine originated from ancient prehistoric traditions in the Korean peninsula, evolving through a complex interaction of environmental, political, and cultural trends. Korean cuisine is largely based upon rice, vegetables, and meats. Traditional Korean meals are noted for the number of side dishes (banchan) that accompany steam-cooked short-grain rice. Kimchi is served often, sometimes at every meal. Commonly used ingredients include sesame oil, doenjang (fermented bean paste), soy sauce, salt, garlic, ginger, pepper flakes, and gochujang (fermented red chili paste). Korean regional cuisine (Korean: hyangto eumsik, literally "native local foods"), is characterized by local specialties and distinctive styles within Korean cuisine. The divisions reflected historical boundaries of the provinces where these food and culinary traditions were preserved until modern times. Korean barbecue, or gogi gui, refers to the Korean method of grilling beef, pork, chicken, or other types of meat. Such dishes are often prepared at the diner's table on gas or charcoal grills that are built into the center of the table itself. It features cooking methods such as sautéing and what is known in the West as barbecue. Strong flavors featuring spices derived from chili peppers can also be found in dishes such as kimchi. Gungjung (Hangul: 궁중) food: A splendid table setting that has been handed down since the Three Kingdoms period since central power was solidified. It is characterized by selecting various local ingredients and mixing them in various ways without being particularly biased. Commoner Cuisine: Much influenced by yangban (elite) families.

Gungjung (Hangul: 궁중) food: A splendid table setting that has been handed down since the Three Kingdoms period since central power was solidified. It is characterized by selecting various local ingredients and mixing them in various ways without being particularly biased.

Commoner Cuisine: Much influenced by yangban (elite) families.

Korean traditional liquor makgeolli(Hangul: 막걸리) is a brewer made of rice. It is characterized by a subtle savory and slightly sweet taste and a slightly pungent feeling, and popularly consumed in South Korea along with soju. It is nutritious because the nutrients of rice are melted. Korean royal court cuisine Korean temple cuisine North Korean cuisine South Korean cuisine

Korean traditional liquor makgeolli(Hangul: 막걸리) is a brewer made of rice. It is characterized by a subtle savory and slightly sweet taste and a slightly pungent feeling, and popularly consumed in South Korea along with soju. It is nutritious because the nutrients of rice are melted.

Korean royal court cuisine

Korean temple cuisine

North Korean cuisine

South Korean cuisine

Mongolian cuisine – local culinary traditions of Mongolia and Mongolian styled dishes. The extreme continental climate has affected the traditional diet, so the Mongolian cuisine primarily consists of dairy products, meat, and animal fats. Use of vegetables and spices are limited.

Taiwanese cuisine – Majority Han Taiwanese cuisine and the Aboriginal Taiwanese cuisine, however mixed with part of Japanese cuisine due to Imperial Japanese colonial legacies.

East Asian cuisine

Due to Guangdong's location on the southern coast of China, fresh live seafood is a specialty in Cantonese cuisine.

Sichuan cuisine – A Chengdu-style, hot-pot stew.

Khorkhog, a barbecue dish consumed in Mongolia

Many flavors of Taiwanese sausages are sold by night market vendors.

North Asian cuisine

North Asian cuisine includes the cuisines of the people from North Asia. It mostly consists of the culinary traditions of the ethnic groups and indigenous people who live in the Asian part of the Russian Federation. Those cuisines have characteristics of Turkic and Mongolian cuisines.

Russian cuisine Buryat cuisine Chukchi cuisine Cuisine of Commander Islands Sakha cuisine Sakhalin Korean cuisine Tuvan cuisine [ru] Yamal cuisine Yup'ik cuisine

Buryat cuisine

Chukchi cuisine

Cuisine of Commander Islands

Sakha cuisine

Sakhalin Korean cuisine

Tuvan cuisine [ru]

Yamal cuisine

Yup'ik cuisine

South Asian cuisine

South Asian cuisine includes the cuisines from the Indian subcontinent and when included in the definition, also that of Afghanistan. It has roots in South Asia, including practices taken from the Hindu beliefs practiced by the large population found in the region, alongside in some regional cuisines, certain influences from neighboring regions and cultures, particularly from Muslim cultures of the Middle East and Central Asia. Dishes in this area of the world are known for their use of hot peppers, black pepper, cloves, and other strong spices along with the flavored butter ghee. Common meats include lamb, goat and chicken; beef is not as common as in western cuisines because the tenets of the Hindu faith prohibit its consumption. Other staples of many of the cuisines include rice, chapati made from wheat and barley, and beans. The cuisine of South Asia has mostly indigenous roots, as well as influences practices taken from foreign origin empires.

Naan, a type of flat bread from the former regions, is a common part of meals in many parts of South Asia.

Afghan cuisine – cuisine of the Afghan people, largely based upon Afghanistan's chief crops: cereals like wheat, maize, barley and rice. Accompanying these staples are dairy products (yogurt and wheat), various nuts, and native vegetables, as well as fresh and dried fruits. Lamb is the primary meat for many Afghans, although Turkic peoples also eat horse. Afghanistan is also well known for its grapes.

Bangladeshi cuisine is dominated by Bengali cuisine and has been shaped by the diverse history and riverine geography of Bangladesh. The country has a tropical monsoon climate. Rice is the main staple food of Bangladeshi people and it is served with a wide range of curries. Sublime Bangladeshi dishes exhibit strong aromatic flavors; and often include eggs, eggplants, potatoes and tomatoes. A variety of spices and herbs, along with mustard oil and ghee, is used in Bangladeshi cooking. The main breads are naan, porota, roti, bakarkhani and luchi. Dal is the second most important staple food which is served with rice/porota/luchi. Fish is a staple in Bangladeshi cuisine, especially freshwater fish, which is a distinctive feature of the country's gastronomy. Major fish dishes include ilish (hilsa), pabda (butterfish), rui (rohu), pangash (pangas catfish), chitol (clown knifefish), magur (walking catfish), bhetki (barramundi) and tilapia. Meat consumption includes beef, lamb, venison, chicken, duck, squab and koel. Vegetable dishes, either mashed (bhorta), boiled (sabji), or leaf-based (saag), are widely served. Seafood such as lobsters and shrimps are also often prevalent.

Bhutanese cuisine employs a lot of red rice (like brown rice in texture, but with a nutty taste, the only variety of rice that grows at high altitudes), buckwheat, and increasingly maize. The diet in the hills also includes chicken, yak meat, dried beef, pork, pork fat, and mutton. When offered food, one says meshu meshu, covering one's mouth with the hands in refusal according to Bhutanese manners, and then gives in on the second or third offer.

Hazaragi cuisine refers to the food and cuisine of the Hazara people in Afghanistan and western Pakistan (Balochistan province). The food of the Hazara people is strongly influenced by Central Asian, South Asian and Persian cuisines and shares similarities with neighboring regional cuisines in Afghanistan and Central Asia, however, there are certain dishes, culinary methods and styles of cooking that are unique to the Hazara people. It is largely centered on bread, meats and dairy products, and uses a large amount of oil in its cooking.

Indian cuisine is characterized by its sophisticated and subtle use of many Indian spices and vegetables, herbs, and fruits grown across India. There is also the widespread practice of vegetarianism across its society. Considered by some to be one of the world's most diverse cuisines, each family of this cuisine is characterized by a wide assortment of dishes and cooking techniques. As a consequence, Indian cuisine varies from region to region, reflecting the varied demographics of the ethnically diverse Indian subcontinent. India's religious beliefs and culture has played an influential role in the evolution of its cuisine. However, cuisine across India has also evolved with the Indian subcontinent's cross-cultural interactions with the neighboring Middle East, Southeast Asia, East Asia, and Central Asia, making it a unique blend of various cuisines across Asia. The colonial period introduced European cooking styles to India adding to its flexibility and diversity. Indian cuisine has also influenced cuisines across the world, especially those from Southeast Asia. In particular, curry has been widely adopted in cuisines around the world. North Indian cuisines Awadhi cuisine Punjabi cuisine Cuisine of Uttar Pradesh Rajasthani cuisine Mughlai cuisine Bhojpuri cuisine Bihari cuisine Kashmiri cuisine Cuisine of Haryana South Indian cuisines Kerala cuisine - Sadhya means "banquet" in Malayalam. It is a typical feast of the people of Kerala. Tamil cuisine Andhra cuisine Cuisine of Karnataka Hyderabadi cuisine East Indian cuisines Bengali cuisine is a style of food preparation originating in Bengal, a region in eastern South Asia which is now divided between the Indian states of West Bengal, Tripura, and Barak Valley of Assam and the independent country of Bangladesh. Bengali food has inherited a large number of influences, both foreign and South Asian, arising from historical and strong trade links with many parts of the world. Cuisine of Jharkhand Oriya cuisine North East Indian cuisines Sikkimese cuisine Assamese cuisine Tripuri cuisine Naga cuisine Manipuri cuisine Arunachalese cuisine Meghalayan cuisine West Indian cuisines Maharashtrian cuisine Malvani cuisine East Indian Cuisine (East Indians are an ethnic group from Bombay in the West of India) The East Indian cuisine is distinct to the community and includes delicacies such as the vajri curry or goat tripe curry, chicken tope, sorpotel, khudi curries and many more. Goan cuisine Parsi cuisine Gujarati cuisine Rajasthani cuisine Other Indian cuisines Indian Chinese cuisine Jain (Satvika) Sindhi cuisine Chettinad cuisine Udupi cuisine Indian fast food Indian wine

North Indian cuisines Awadhi cuisine Punjabi cuisine Cuisine of Uttar Pradesh Rajasthani cuisine Mughlai cuisine Bhojpuri cuisine Bihari cuisine Kashmiri cuisine Cuisine of Haryana

Awadhi cuisine

Punjabi cuisine

Cuisine of Uttar Pradesh

Rajasthani cuisine

Mughlai cuisine

Bhojpuri cuisine

Bihari cuisine

Kashmiri cuisine

Cuisine of Haryana

South Indian cuisines Kerala cuisine - Sadhya means "banquet" in Malayalam. It is a typical feast of the people of Kerala. Tamil cuisine Andhra cuisine Cuisine of Karnataka Hyderabadi cuisine

Kerala cuisine - Sadhya means "banquet" in Malayalam. It is a typical feast of the people of Kerala.

Tamil cuisine

Andhra cuisine

Cuisine of Karnataka

Hyderabadi cuisine

East Indian cuisines Bengali cuisine is a style of food preparation originating in Bengal, a region in eastern South Asia which is now divided between the Indian states of West Bengal, Tripura, and Barak Valley of Assam and the independent country of Bangladesh. Bengali food has inherited a large number of influences, both foreign and South Asian, arising from historical and strong trade links with many parts of the world. Cuisine of Jharkhand Oriya cuisine

Bengali cuisine is a style of food preparation originating in Bengal, a region in eastern South Asia which is now divided between the Indian states of West Bengal, Tripura, and Barak Valley of Assam and the independent country of Bangladesh. Bengali food has inherited a large number of influences, both foreign and South Asian, arising from historical and strong trade links with many parts of the world.

Cuisine of Jharkhand

Oriya cuisine

North East Indian cuisines Sikkimese cuisine Assamese cuisine Tripuri cuisine Naga cuisine Manipuri cuisine Arunachalese cuisine Meghalayan cuisine

Sikkimese cuisine

Assamese cuisine

Tripuri cuisine

Naga cuisine

Manipuri cuisine

Arunachalese cuisine

Meghalayan cuisine

West Indian cuisines Maharashtrian cuisine Malvani cuisine East Indian Cuisine (East Indians are an ethnic group from Bombay in the West of India) The East Indian cuisine is distinct to the community and includes delicacies such as the vajri curry or goat tripe curry, chicken tope, sorpotel, khudi curries and many more. Goan cuisine Parsi cuisine Gujarati cuisine Rajasthani cuisine

Maharashtrian cuisine Malvani cuisine East Indian Cuisine (East Indians are an ethnic group from Bombay in the West of India) The East Indian cuisine is distinct to the community and includes delicacies such as the vajri curry or goat tripe curry, chicken tope, sorpotel, khudi curries and many more.

Malvani cuisine

East Indian Cuisine (East Indians are an ethnic group from Bombay in the West of India) The East Indian cuisine is distinct to the community and includes delicacies such as the vajri curry or goat tripe curry, chicken tope, sorpotel, khudi curries and many more.

Goan cuisine

Parsi cuisine

Gujarati cuisine

Rajasthani cuisine

Other Indian cuisines Indian Chinese cuisine Jain (Satvika) Sindhi cuisine Chettinad cuisine Udupi cuisine Indian fast food Indian wine

Indian Chinese cuisine

Jain (Satvika)

Sindhi cuisine

Chettinad cuisine

Udupi cuisine

Indian fast food

Indian wine

Maithil cuisine

Maldivian cuisine

Nepalese cuisine Newari cuisine

Newari cuisine

Pakistani cuisine Balochi cuisine Kashmiri cuisine Pashtun cuisine Muhajir cuisine Punjabi cuisine Lahori cuisine Mughlai cuisine Sindhi cuisine

Balochi cuisine

Kashmiri cuisine

Pashtun cuisine

Muhajir cuisine

Punjabi cuisine

Lahori cuisine

Mughlai cuisine

Sindhi cuisine

Sri Lankan cuisine

South Asian cuisine

Some of the popular Afghan dishes, from left to right: 1. Lamb grilled kebab (seekh kabab); 2. Kabuli palaw and salad; 3. Tandoori chicken; and 4. Mantu (dumplings).

Traditional Bangladeshi meal: mustard seed ilish curry, Dhakai biryani and pitha; similar to East Indian cuisine.

South Indian style vegetarian thali.

North Indian style vegetarian thali.

Pork vindaloo is a popular curry dish from the Indian state of Goa and around the world.

Southeast Asian cuisine

Southeast Asian cuisine emphasizes lightly prepared dishes with strong aromas, featuring such flavors as lemongrass, fermented fish sauce and pastes, and ginger. Ingredients in the region contrast with the ones in the Eastern Asian cuisines, substituting fish sauces for soy sauce and including such ingredients as galangal, tamarind and lemongrass. Cooking methods include stir frying, boiling and steaming.

Bruneian cuisine is similar to, and heavily influenced by, the cuisine of neighboring Malaysia, Singapore, and Indonesia, with additional influences from China, India and Arab.

Burmese cuisine has been influenced greatly by China, India and Thailand. However, Burmese cuisine has retained unique preparation techniques and distinct flavors, and there are many regional variations of "standard" dishes. The Burmese eat with their right hand, forming rice into a small ball with only the fingertips and mixing this with various morsels before popping it into their mouths. The Burmese eat a great variety of vegetables and fruits, and a variety of meat. A very popular vegetable is the danyin thi, which is usually boiled or roasted and dipped in salt, oil and sometimes, cooked coconut fat.

Cambodian cuisine encompasses the cuisines of all ethnic groups in Cambodia, whereas Khmer cuisine refers specifically to the cuisine of the ethnic Khmers. Over time, Khmer cuisine has absorbed elements from Indian, Chinese and more recently French cuisine, and due to historic interaction and shared influences, Cambodian cuisine has many similarities with neighboring Thai, Vietnamese, and Lao cuisines.

Christmas Island cuisine has influences from both Australian cuisine and other Asian cuisines, particularly Malaysian and Indonesian.

Cuisine of East Timor is the cuisine of one of the newest Southeast Asian countries.

Filipino cuisine has evolved over several centuries from its Austronesian origins to a mixed cuisine with many Hispanic, Chinese, American, and other Asian influences adapted to indigenous ingredients and the local palate. For more information refer to: Filipino cuisine; regional specialties. Kapampangan cuisine is the cuisine native to the Kapampangan people originating from the province of Pampanga, in Central Luzon. One of the best examples of Kapampangan dish is sisig, which is a popular dish across the Philippines. Bicol's cuisine is noted for its gastronomic appetite for the fiery or chili-hot dishes and coconut milk dishes. Perhaps the most well-known Bicolano dish is the very spicy Bicol express. The region is also the well-known home of natong also known as laing or pinangat (pork or fish stew in taro leaves). Being surrounded by waters and rich land, Visayas is abundant in marine and land products as indicated in various Visayan cuisines. Few examples of famous Visayan foods include Cebu's Lechon variant, Iloilo's La Paz batchoy, Bacolod's inasal and piaya, and Leyte's roscas, humba, moron, and bukayo. Mindanao cuisine's dishes are richly flavored with the spices common to Southeast Asia. Some parts of Mindanao are predominantly Muslim, where pork is rarely consumed. Most notable dishes in Mindanao cuisine are: Satti, Sambal, Tiyula itum, and Zamboanga's Alfajor, curacha, and rebosao.

Kapampangan cuisine is the cuisine native to the Kapampangan people originating from the province of Pampanga, in Central Luzon. One of the best examples of Kapampangan dish is sisig, which is a popular dish across the Philippines.

Bicol's cuisine is noted for its gastronomic appetite for the fiery or chili-hot dishes and coconut milk dishes. Perhaps the most well-known Bicolano dish is the very spicy Bicol express. The region is also the well-known home of natong also known as laing or pinangat (pork or fish stew in taro leaves).

Being surrounded by waters and rich land, Visayas is abundant in marine and land products as indicated in various Visayan cuisines. Few examples of famous Visayan foods include Cebu's Lechon variant, Iloilo's La Paz batchoy, Bacolod's inasal and piaya, and Leyte's roscas, humba, moron, and bukayo.

Mindanao cuisine's dishes are richly flavored with the spices common to Southeast Asia. Some parts of Mindanao are predominantly Muslim, where pork is rarely consumed. Most notable dishes in Mindanao cuisine are: Satti, Sambal, Tiyula itum, and Zamboanga's Alfajor, curacha, and rebosao.

Hmong cuisine is the cuisine of the Hmong people, originally of China, now a diaspora across Southeast Asia with a significant Hmong American community in the United States.

Indonesian cuisine is diverse, in part because Indonesia is composed of approximately 6,000 populated islands. Many regional cuisines exist, often based upon cultural and foreign influences. For example, Sumatran cuisine often has Middle Eastern and Indian influences, featuring curried meat and vegetables, while Javanese cuisine and Sundanese cuisine are more indigenous. Acehnese cuisine is the cuisine of the Acehnese people of Aceh in most western Sumatra. Balinese cuisine is the cuisine and culinary traditions of Balinese people from the volcanic island of Bali. Banjar cuisine: is the cooking tradition and cuisine of Banjar people of South Kalimantan in Indonesia. Batak cuisine is the cuisine and cooking traditions of Batak ethnic groups, predominantly found in North Sumatra region. Indo cuisine is a fusion cooking and cuisine tradition, mainly existing in Indonesia (nationwide) and the Netherlands, as well as Belgium, South Africa and Suriname. Indonesian Arab cuisine is characterized by the mixture of Middle Eastern cuisine with local Indonesian style. Indonesian Arabs brought their legacy of Arab cuisine originally from Hadhramaut, Hejaz and Egypt. Indonesian Chinese cuisine is characterized by the mixture of Chinese with local Indonesian style. Chinese Indonesians bring their Chinese cuisine legacy. Indonesian Indian cuisine is characterized by the mixture of Indian cuisine with local Indonesian style. Indian Indonesians bring their Indian cuisine legacy. Javanese cuisine is the cuisine of Javanese people. In wider sense, Javanese cuisine might also refer to the cuisine of the whole people of Java Island, Indonesia; which also includes Sundanese in West Java, Betawi in Jakarta and Madurese on Madura Island off East Java. Betawi cuisine is rich, diverse and eclectic cuisine of Betawi people in Jakarta due to the Betawi people that create them were composed from numbers of regional immigrants that came from various places in the archipelago. Madurese cuisine is the cuisine tradition of Madurese people in Madura island on the northeastern coast of Java. Sundanese cuisine is the cuisine of Sundanese people of West Java, Indonesia. In Sundanese restaurants, it is common to eat with one's hands. They usually serve kobokan, a bowl of tap water with a slice of lime for handwashing. Makassar cuisine is the cuisine of the Buginese people and Makassar people in South Sulawesi. Malay cuisine is the cuisine of Malay people with many regional and foreign influences. Manado cuisine is the cooking tradition of the Minahasan people of North Sulawesi. This cuisine has influences by Eurasian cuisine, especially Dutch cuisine. Padang food, also known as Minangkabau cuisine, is the cuisine of the Minangkabau people of West Sumatra, Indonesia. It is among the most popular food in Maritime Southeast Asia. It is known across Indonesia as masakan Padang. Palembang cuisine is the cuisine of the Palembang people in South Sumatra. Peranakan cuisine combines Chinese, Malay, Javanese and other influences into a unique blend.

Acehnese cuisine is the cuisine of the Acehnese people of Aceh in most western Sumatra.

Balinese cuisine is the cuisine and culinary traditions of Balinese people from the volcanic island of Bali.

Banjar cuisine: is the cooking tradition and cuisine of Banjar people of South Kalimantan in Indonesia.

Batak cuisine is the cuisine and cooking traditions of Batak ethnic groups, predominantly found in North Sumatra region.

Indo cuisine is a fusion cooking and cuisine tradition, mainly existing in Indonesia (nationwide) and the Netherlands, as well as Belgium, South Africa and Suriname.

Indonesian Arab cuisine is characterized by the mixture of Middle Eastern cuisine with local Indonesian style. Indonesian Arabs brought their legacy of Arab cuisine originally from Hadhramaut, Hejaz and Egypt.

Indonesian Chinese cuisine is characterized by the mixture of Chinese with local Indonesian style. Chinese Indonesians bring their Chinese cuisine legacy.

Indonesian Indian cuisine is characterized by the mixture of Indian cuisine with local Indonesian style. Indian Indonesians bring their Indian cuisine legacy.

Javanese cuisine is the cuisine of Javanese people. In wider sense, Javanese cuisine might also refer to the cuisine of the whole people of Java Island, Indonesia; which also includes Sundanese in West Java, Betawi in Jakarta and Madurese on Madura Island off East Java. Betawi cuisine is rich, diverse and eclectic cuisine of Betawi people in Jakarta due to the Betawi people that create them were composed from numbers of regional immigrants that came from various places in the archipelago. Madurese cuisine is the cuisine tradition of Madurese people in Madura island on the northeastern coast of Java. Sundanese cuisine is the cuisine of Sundanese people of West Java, Indonesia. In Sundanese restaurants, it is common to eat with one's hands. They usually serve kobokan, a bowl of tap water with a slice of lime for handwashing.

Betawi cuisine is rich, diverse and eclectic cuisine of Betawi people in Jakarta due to the Betawi people that create them were composed from numbers of regional immigrants that came from various places in the archipelago.

Madurese cuisine is the cuisine tradition of Madurese people in Madura island on the northeastern coast of Java.

Sundanese cuisine is the cuisine of Sundanese people of West Java, Indonesia. In Sundanese restaurants, it is common to eat with one's hands. They usually serve kobokan, a bowl of tap water with a slice of lime for handwashing.

Makassar cuisine is the cuisine of the Buginese people and Makassar people in South Sulawesi.

Malay cuisine is the cuisine of Malay people with many regional and foreign influences.

Manado cuisine is the cooking tradition of the Minahasan people of North Sulawesi. This cuisine has influences by Eurasian cuisine, especially Dutch cuisine.

Padang food, also known as Minangkabau cuisine, is the cuisine of the Minangkabau people of West Sumatra, Indonesia. It is among the most popular food in Maritime Southeast Asia. It is known across Indonesia as masakan Padang.

Palembang cuisine is the cuisine of the Palembang people in South Sumatra.

Peranakan cuisine combines Chinese, Malay, Javanese and other influences into a unique blend.

Laotian cuisine is the cuisine of Laos, which is distinct from other Southeast Asian cuisines. Laos shares borders with neighboring countries and as a result, Lao cuisine has strongly influenced the neighboring cuisine of Northeastern Thailand (Isan) and some Lao culinary influences have also reached Cambodia and Northern Thailand (Lanna).

Malaysian cuisine reflects the multicultural aspects of Malaysia. Malaysia is an amalgamation of three major races, Malay, Chinese and Indian, as well as a myriad of ethnic groups from Sabah and Sarawak. The potpourri is enriched further with the influence of the Thai from the north, Indonesian from the south, Filipino from the east, and British, Dutch and Portuguese through hundred years of colonization. Malay cuisine is the cuisine of Malay people with many regional and foreign influences. For examples, cuisine of Johor often has Middle Eastern and Javanese influences while cuisine of Kelantan often has Thai influences. Malaysian Chinese cuisine is characterized by the mixture of Chinese with local ingredients. Malaysian Indian cuisine is characterized by the mixture of Indian with local ingredients. Sarawakian cuisine is the cuisine of Sarawak, Malaysia Sabahan cuisine is the cuisine of Sabah, Malaysia with influences from Filipino cuisine and Indonesian cuisine Peranakan cuisine combines Chinese, Malay and other influences into a unique blend. Peranakan in Penang often has Thai influences while Melaka and Singapore often has Indonesian influences. Eurasian cuisine combines Kristang, Dutch, British, Malay and other influences into a unique blend, predominantly found in Melaka

Malay cuisine is the cuisine of Malay people with many regional and foreign influences. For examples, cuisine of Johor often has Middle Eastern and Javanese influences while cuisine of Kelantan often has Thai influences.

Malaysian Chinese cuisine is characterized by the mixture of Chinese with local ingredients.

Malaysian Indian cuisine is characterized by the mixture of Indian with local ingredients.

Sarawakian cuisine is the cuisine of Sarawak, Malaysia

Sabahan cuisine is the cuisine of Sabah, Malaysia with influences from Filipino cuisine and Indonesian cuisine

Peranakan cuisine combines Chinese, Malay and other influences into a unique blend. Peranakan in Penang often has Thai influences while Melaka and Singapore often has Indonesian influences.

Eurasian cuisine combines Kristang, Dutch, British, Malay and other influences into a unique blend, predominantly found in Melaka

Singaporean cuisine is similar to, and heavily influenced by the cuisine of neighboring Malaysia, as a product of centuries of cultural interaction owing to Singapore's strategic location. The predominant cuisine in Singapore is Chinese, along with Malay, Indian and English traditions since the founding of Singapore by the British in the early 19th century.

Thai cuisine can be described as four regional cuisines corresponding to the four main regions of the country: Northern, Northeastern (or Isan), Central, and Southern. A fifth cuisine is Thai royal cuisine, based on the palace cuisine of the Ayutthaya kingdom (1351–1767 CE), which was influential upon the cuisine of the Central Thai plains. Each cuisine has similarities to foods and cuisines in neighboring countries and regions, including the Cuisine of Burma, Yunnan cuisine, Lao cuisine, Cambodian cuisine and Malaysian cuisine.

Vietnamese cuisine is a style of cooking derived from Vietnam with Chinese and French influence. Fish sauce, soy sauce, rice, fresh herbs, fruits and vegetables are commonly used. Vietnamese recipes utilize a diverse range of herbs, including lemongrass, mint, Vietnamese mint, long coriander and Thai basil leaves. Vietnamese wine

Vietnamese wine

Southeast Asian cuisine

Personal serving of Nasi Bali, in Indonesia, rice surrounded by numbers of side dishes including sate lilit.

Thai Kaeng phet pet yang: roast duck in red curry.

Philippine adobo is a popular Filipino dish and cooking process in Filipino cuisine.

Malaysian nasi lemak, is served with anchovies, peanuts, boiled egg, lamb curry, cucumber, and sambal.

Food stall in Chiang Mai, Thailand selling ready-cooked food.

Bò 7 món (literally "seven courses of beef" in Vietnamese) is a set selection of beef dishes in Vietnamese cuisine.

West Asian cuisine

West Asian cuisine, is the cuisine of the various countries and peoples of West Asia. Despite their similarities, there are considerable differences in climate and culture, so the term is not definitive. The cuisine of the region is diverse while having a degree of homogeneity. Many West Asian dishes are made with a paste called tahini. Tahini is a sesame paste made with hulled seeds, unlike its East Asian counterpart. It is used to make such popular meze, or appetizers, as baba ghanoush and hummus along with pungent dipping sauces served with falafel, keftes or kofta and vegetables. Hummus is made from chickpeas, which are staples of the diet. Some commonly used ingredients include olives and olive oil, lamb, pitas, honey, sesame seeds, dates, sumac, chickpeas, mint and parsley. Some popular dishes include kibbeh and shawarma. Arab cuisine of the Persian Gulf - Arab cuisine of the Persian Gulf today is the result of combination of diverse cuisines, incorporating Levantine, Indian, Chinese, and Persian cooking styles, and many items not originally indigenous to the Persian Gulf region, which were most probably imported on the dhows and the caravans. Assyrian cuisine Bahraini cuisine refers to the cuisine of The Kingdom of Bahrain, a small island state near the western shores of the Persian Gulf. Bahrain produces only a small amount of its food requirements due to limited land space, and imports much of its food. Its primary crops are dates, bananas, citrus fruits, pomegranates, mangoes, cucumbers and tomatoes. Cypriot cuisine Egyptian cuisine Emirati cuisine Iranian cuisine - Persian cuisine is diverse, with each province featuring dishes, culinary traditions and styles distinct to its region. Abgoosht is an Iranian stew usually made with lamb and vegetables Caspian cuisine Iraqi cuisine or Mesopotamian cuisine, has a long history going back some 10,000 years - to the Sumerians, Babylonians and Assyrians. Tablets found in ancient ruins in Iraq show recipes prepared in the temples during religious festivals - the first cookbooks in the world. Kurdish cuisine consists of a wide variety of foods prepared by the Kurdish people that have got many traditions from their homeland, Kurdistan. Kuwaiti cuisine - the national dish of Kuwait known as machboos (Arabic: مكبوس) consists mainly of mutton or chicken placed over or mixed in a large mass of well-cooked and prepared rice. Mizrahi Jewish cuisine is based largely on fresh ingredients, as marketing was done in the local souq. Omani cuisine is generally very simple, with the aid of many spices and marinades to complete a dish, which usually consists of chicken, fish, and mutton. Unlike many other Asian nations, Omani cuisine is not spicy, and varies between regions. Qatari cuisine Saudi Arabian cuisine - Food staples include lamb, grilled chicken, falafel (deep-fried chickpea balls), shawarma (spit-cooked sliced lamb), mutabbaq and Ful medames. Arabic unleavened bread, or khobz (خبز), is eaten with almost all meals, and is often used as an edible utensil to scoop foods. Kabsa is considered by many as Saudi Arabia's national dish. Turkish cuisine is largely the heritage of Ottoman cuisine, which can be described as a fusion and refinement of Central Asian, West Asian and Balkan cuisines. Turkish cuisine has in turn influenced those and other neighboring cuisines, including that of western Europe. Pontic Greek cuisine Turkish wine Yemeni cuisine - The most common Yemeni dishes include: Aseed, Bint Al-Sahn, Fahsa, Fatoot, Fattah, Ful medames, Hareesh, Jachnun, Kabsa, Karees, Komroh, Mandi, Mateet, Mutabbaq, Saltah, Samak Mofa, Shafut, Shakshouka, Thareed, and Zoam. Mandi is a traditional Yemeni dish usually made from meat (lamb or chicken), basmati rice, and a mixture of spices. Levantine cuisine – traditional cuisine of Ottoman Syria, now usually called the Levant, known in Arabic as the Bilad ash-Sham. This region shared many culinary traditions under the Ottoman Empire which continue to be influential today. It covers the modern states of Syria, Palestine, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel, Northern Iraq, northwest Iraq (the province of Mosul), and parts of southern Turkey near Adana, Gaziantep, Antakya and Mardin. Palestinian cuisine consists of foods from or commonly eaten by Palestinians, whether in Palestine, Israel, Jordan, refugee camps in nearby countries, or by the Palestinian diaspora. Israeli cuisine comprises a mixture of dishes—from those brought back to Israel by Jews from the Diaspora, those from Jews who remained in the region, and those adopted from surrounding Arab inhabitants. Since before the establishment of the modern State of Israel in 1948, and particularly since the late 1970s, an Israeli fusion cuisine has developed. Ancient Israelite cuisine Israeli wine Ptitim – Israeli toasted pasta shaped like rice or little balls. Jordanian cuisine Lebanese cuisine includes an abundance of starches, fruits, vegetables, fresh fish and seafood; animal fats are consumed sparingly. Poultry is eaten more often than red meat, and when red meat is eaten it is usually lamb on the coast and goat meat in the mountain regions. Lebanese wine Syrian cuisine is a diffusion of the cultures of civilizations that settled in Syria, particularly during and after the Islamic era beginning with the Arab Umayyad conquest, then the eventual Persian-influenced Abbasids and ending with the strong influences of Turkish cuisine, resulting from the coming of the Ottoman Turks. Syrian Jewish cuisine

Arab cuisine of the Persian Gulf - Arab cuisine of the Persian Gulf today is the result of combination of diverse cuisines, incorporating Levantine, Indian, Chinese, and Persian cooking styles, and many items not originally indigenous to the Persian Gulf region, which were most probably imported on the dhows and the caravans.

Assyrian cuisine

Bahraini cuisine refers to the cuisine of The Kingdom of Bahrain, a small island state near the western shores of the Persian Gulf. Bahrain produces only a small amount of its food requirements due to limited land space, and imports much of its food. Its primary crops are dates, bananas, citrus fruits, pomegranates, mangoes, cucumbers and tomatoes.

Cypriot cuisine

Egyptian cuisine

Emirati cuisine

Iranian cuisine - Persian cuisine is diverse, with each province featuring dishes, culinary traditions and styles distinct to its region. Abgoosht is an Iranian stew usually made with lamb and vegetables Caspian cuisine

Abgoosht is an Iranian stew usually made with lamb and vegetables

Caspian cuisine

Iraqi cuisine or Mesopotamian cuisine, has a long history going back some 10,000 years - to the Sumerians, Babylonians and Assyrians. Tablets found in ancient ruins in Iraq show recipes prepared in the temples during religious festivals - the first cookbooks in the world. Kurdish cuisine consists of a wide variety of foods prepared by the Kurdish people that have got many traditions from their homeland, Kurdistan.

Kurdish cuisine consists of a wide variety of foods prepared by the Kurdish people that have got many traditions from their homeland, Kurdistan.

Kuwaiti cuisine - the national dish of Kuwait known as machboos (Arabic: مكبوس) consists mainly of mutton or chicken placed over or mixed in a large mass of well-cooked and prepared rice.

Mizrahi Jewish cuisine is based largely on fresh ingredients, as marketing was done in the local souq.

Omani cuisine is generally very simple, with the aid of many spices and marinades to complete a dish, which usually consists of chicken, fish, and mutton. Unlike many other Asian nations, Omani cuisine is not spicy, and varies between regions.

Qatari cuisine

Saudi Arabian cuisine - Food staples include lamb, grilled chicken, falafel (deep-fried chickpea balls), shawarma (spit-cooked sliced lamb), mutabbaq and Ful medames. Arabic unleavened bread, or khobz (خبز), is eaten with almost all meals, and is often used as an edible utensil to scoop foods. Kabsa is considered by many as Saudi Arabia's national dish.

Kabsa is considered by many as Saudi Arabia's national dish.

Turkish cuisine is largely the heritage of Ottoman cuisine, which can be described as a fusion and refinement of Central Asian, West Asian and Balkan cuisines. Turkish cuisine has in turn influenced those and other neighboring cuisines, including that of western Europe. Pontic Greek cuisine Turkish wine

Pontic Greek cuisine

Turkish wine

Yemeni cuisine - The most common Yemeni dishes include: Aseed, Bint Al-Sahn, Fahsa, Fatoot, Fattah, Ful medames, Hareesh, Jachnun, Kabsa, Karees, Komroh, Mandi, Mateet, Mutabbaq, Saltah, Samak Mofa, Shafut, Shakshouka, Thareed, and Zoam. Mandi is a traditional Yemeni dish usually made from meat (lamb or chicken), basmati rice, and a mixture of spices.

Mandi is a traditional Yemeni dish usually made from meat (lamb or chicken), basmati rice, and a mixture of spices.

Levantine cuisine – traditional cuisine of Ottoman Syria, now usually called the Levant, known in Arabic as the Bilad ash-Sham. This region shared many culinary traditions under the Ottoman Empire which continue to be influential today. It covers the modern states of Syria, Palestine, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel, Northern Iraq, northwest Iraq (the province of Mosul), and parts of southern Turkey near Adana, Gaziantep, Antakya and Mardin. Palestinian cuisine consists of foods from or commonly eaten by Palestinians, whether in Palestine, Israel, Jordan, refugee camps in nearby countries, or by the Palestinian diaspora. Israeli cuisine comprises a mixture of dishes—from those brought back to Israel by Jews from the Diaspora, those from Jews who remained in the region, and those adopted from surrounding Arab inhabitants. Since before the establishment of the modern State of Israel in 1948, and particularly since the late 1970s, an Israeli fusion cuisine has developed. Ancient Israelite cuisine Israeli wine Ptitim – Israeli toasted pasta shaped like rice or little balls. Jordanian cuisine Lebanese cuisine includes an abundance of starches, fruits, vegetables, fresh fish and seafood; animal fats are consumed sparingly. Poultry is eaten more often than red meat, and when red meat is eaten it is usually lamb on the coast and goat meat in the mountain regions. Lebanese wine Syrian cuisine is a diffusion of the cultures of civilizations that settled in Syria, particularly during and after the Islamic era beginning with the Arab Umayyad conquest, then the eventual Persian-influenced Abbasids and ending with the strong influences of Turkish cuisine, resulting from the coming of the Ottoman Turks. Syrian Jewish cuisine

Palestinian cuisine consists of foods from or commonly eaten by Palestinians, whether in Palestine, Israel, Jordan, refugee camps in nearby countries, or by the Palestinian diaspora.

Israeli cuisine comprises a mixture of dishes—from those brought back to Israel by Jews from the Diaspora, those from Jews who remained in the region, and those adopted from surrounding Arab inhabitants. Since before the establishment of the modern State of Israel in 1948, and particularly since the late 1970s, an Israeli fusion cuisine has developed. Ancient Israelite cuisine Israeli wine Ptitim – Israeli toasted pasta shaped like rice or little balls.

Ancient Israelite cuisine

Israeli wine

Ptitim – Israeli toasted pasta shaped like rice or little balls.

Jordanian cuisine

Lebanese cuisine includes an abundance of starches, fruits, vegetables, fresh fish and seafood; animal fats are consumed sparingly. Poultry is eaten more often than red meat, and when red meat is eaten it is usually lamb on the coast and goat meat in the mountain regions. Lebanese wine

Lebanese wine

Syrian cuisine is a diffusion of the cultures of civilizations that settled in Syria, particularly during and after the Islamic era beginning with the Arab Umayyad conquest, then the eventual Persian-influenced Abbasids and ending with the strong influences of Turkish cuisine, resulting from the coming of the Ottoman Turks.

Syrian Jewish cuisine

South Caucasus cuisine is the cuisine of the various countries and peoples of the South Caucasus, also known as Transcaucasia. Armenian cuisine Azerbaijani cuisine Georgian cuisine Ossetian cuisine

Armenian cuisine

Azerbaijani cuisine

Georgian cuisine Ossetian cuisine

Ossetian cuisine

West Asian foods and dishes

Kabsa is a traditional Yemeni dish.

Hummus with pine nuts at the Maxim restaurant in Haifa, Israel.

Syrians are renowned for producing dried apricot paste

Chicken Fesenjān with Persian rice, an Iranian dish

Dubai chocolate is a popular Emirati style of chocolate bar filled with kadayif and pistachio-tahini cream.

Fatayer is a meat pie or pastry that can alternatively be stuffed with spinach (sabaneq), or cheese (jibnah). It is eaten in Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and other countries in West Asia.

Fahsa is a famous Yemeni dish, containing beef or lamb meat cooked in a stony pot called Madara.

Falafel balls

Doner kebab, Istanbul, Turkey

Adjarian Khachapuri from Georgia

Armenian Ghapama made with butternut squash, instead of pumpkin

Light snacks of Azerbaijani cuisine

See also

Eastern Arabian cuisine

Asian cuisine

Fusion cuisine

List of cuisines

List of dishes from the Caucasus

Mediterranean cuisine

Society

References

^ "Cuisine." Archived 2013-04-26 at the Wayback Machine Thefreedictionary.com Archived 2013-05-26 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed June 2011.

^ "Kazakhstan". foodbycountry.com. Archived from the original on May 20, 2011. Retrieved April 18, 2011.

^ "The noodle-rich cuisine of Uzbekistan" Archived 2007-12-11 at the Wayback Machine, The Village Voice, Dining, 19 January 1999.

^ "Fujian Cuisine. Archived 2013-07-31 at the Wayback Machine Beautyfujian.com Archived 2011-07-10 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed June 2011.

^ "Regions of Chinese food-styles/flavors of cooking." Archived 2011-10-05 at the Wayback Machine University of Kansas Archived 2011-10-05 at the Wayback Machine, Kansas Asia Scholars. Accessed June 2011.

^ J. Li & Y. Hsieh. Traditional Chinese Food Technology and Cuisine. Asia Pacific Journal of Clinical Nutrition.

^ Hsiung, Deh-Ta. Simonds, Nina. Lowe, Jason. [2005] (2005). The food of China: a journey for food lovers. Bay Books. ISBN 978-0-681-02584-4. p17.

^ TVB. "TVB Archived 2010-11-01 at the Wayback Machine." 廣東菜最具多元烹調方法. Retrieved on 2008-11-19.

^ 徐, 文苑 (2005), 中国饮食文化概论, 清华大学出版社, pp. 79–80

^ Marshall Cavendish Corporation (2007). World and Its Peoples: Eastern and Southern Asia. Marshall Cavendish. p. 126. ISBN 9780761476313. Archived from the original on January 13, 2023. Retrieved November 15, 2015.

^ "Beijing 2008 Olympics - Zhejiang Cuisine". People's Daily Online. 2008. Archived from the original on June 5, 2011. Retrieved September 22, 2008.

^ Bourdain, Anthony (2001). A Cook's Tour: Global Adventures in Extreme Cuisines. New York, NY: Ecco. ISBN 0-06-001278-1.

^ "A Day in the Life: Seasonal Foods" Archived 2013-01-16 at the Wayback Machine, The Japan Forum Newsletter No. September 14, 1999.

^ "Japanese Cuisine. Archived 2011-06-25 at the Wayback Machine Thefoodieshandbook.co.uk Archived 2016-02-18 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed July 2011.

^ (in Japanese) "「ミシュランガイド東京・横浜・鎌倉2011」を発行 三つ星が14軒、二つ星が54軒、一つ星が198軒に" Archived 2010-11-29 at the Wayback Machine, Michelin Japan, November 24, 2010.

^ Tokyo is Michelin's biggest star Archived 2011-10-12 at the Wayback Machine From The Times November 20, 2007

^ Ishige, Naomichi. "Food Forum Okinawa Archived 2008-05-17 at the Wayback Machine." Kikkoman. Retrieved on November 30, 2009.

^ The Chosun Ilbo. "Hanjeongsik, a full-course Korean meal." English.chosun.com Archived 2003-07-07 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed 6/11/2008.

^ "Korean Cuisine (한국요리 韓國料理)" (in Korean). Naver / Doosan Encyclopedia. Retrieved March 28, 2009.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link)

^ 향토음식 Archived 2011-07-14 at the Wayback Machine Nate Korean-English Dictionary

^ a b c Le, C.N. (2008). "Asian Cuisine & Foods". Asian-Nation: The Landscape of Asian America. Archived from the original on January 14, 2009. Retrieved December 18, 2008.

^ a b "Indian Cuisine." Archived 2018-02-19 at the Wayback Machine VisitSingapore.com Archived 2018-05-07 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed July 2011.

^ "www.indiaat60.in/backgrounders/Incredible-India@60-indian-cuisine.pdf" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on October 11, 2017. Retrieved May 26, 2013.

^ Chandra, Sanjeev (February 7, 2008). "The story of desi cuisine: Timeless desi dishes". The Star. Toronto. Archived from the original on October 26, 2008.

^ "Indian Grocery Online, Food Shopping Store, Buy, Indian Cuisine". Archived from the original on July 26, 2009. Retrieved May 26, 2013.

^ "Foreign Influences in Modern Indian Cooking". Archived from the original on July 21, 2010. Retrieved May 26, 2013.

^ "History of Indian Food and Cooking". Archived from the original on May 26, 2013.

^ "Food - VegVoyages". Archived from the original on June 28, 2009.

^ "Food & Recipes - Asia Society". Archived from the original on May 25, 2001.

^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on October 3, 2008. Retrieved May 26, 2013.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)

^ "Of Vajri Curries and Trotter Khudis - East Indians? | TheWingedFork". The Winged Fork. July 25, 2017. Archived from the original on October 21, 2018. Retrieved October 21, 2018.

^ "Goat Tripe - Vajri Khudi Curry : East Indian Series | TheWingedFork". The Winged Fork. May 4, 2018. Archived from the original on November 16, 2018. Retrieved October 21, 2018.

^ "Special East Indian Chicken Tope - East Indian Series | TheWingedFork". The Winged Fork. October 13, 2017. Archived from the original on October 21, 2018. Retrieved October 21, 2018.

^ Fieldhouse, Paul. The World Religions Cookbook. Greenwood Press. p. 3.

^ "Cuisine of Brunei". ifood.tv. Archived from the original on May 27, 2012. Retrieved September 30, 2010.

^ "Philippine Cuisine." Archived 2011-06-16 at the Wayback Machine Balitapinoy.net Archived 2011-07-23 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed July 2011.

^ Alejandro, Reynaldo (1985). The Philippine cookbook. New York, New York: Penguin. pp. 12–14. ISBN 978-0-399-51144-8. Archived from the original on January 13, 2023. Retrieved February 23, 2019.

^ Civitello, Linda (2011). Cuisine and Culture: A History of Food and People. John Wiley and Sons. p. 263. ISBN 978-1-118-09875-2. Archived from the original on January 13, 2023. Retrieved February 23, 2019.

^ Philippines Country Study Guide. Int'l Business Publications. 2007. p. 111. ISBN 978-1-4330-3970-6.

^ a b c "Indonesian Cuisine." Archived 2017-08-23 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed July 2011.

^ "Indonesian food." Archived September 10, 2011, at the Wayback Machine Belindo.com Archived 2011-09-07 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed July 2011.

^ "Indonesian Cuisine". Diner's Digest. Archived from the original on April 9, 2011. Retrieved July 11, 2010.

^ "Stung Treng". Archived from the original on June 13, 2010.

^ "Thai Food - Regional Thai Cuisine by Sawadee.com". Archived from the original on September 17, 2011.

^ "What is Malay Food?" Archived 2013-05-25 at the Wayback Machine Malaysianfood.net Archived 2013-06-06 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed July 2011.

^ a b c "Singapore Food." Archived 2011-07-05 at the Wayback Machine Singaporefoodhistory.com Archived 2011-07-05 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed July 2011.

^ a b c "Modern Thai" Archived 2013-05-27 at the Wayback Machine (food). Sabaiaz.com Archived 2013-05-27 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed July 2011.

^ a b c "The Middle East: Background." Archived 2017-05-26 at the Wayback Machine, Globalgourmet.com Archived 1998-01-26 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed January 2007.

^ Tahini: The Taste of Healthy Middle Eastern Cuisine Archived 2016-07-23 at the Wayback Machine, The New York Times, October 19, 2009. Last visited January 29, 2010.

^ Daisy Martinez (2010). Daisy: Morning, Noon and Night: Bringing Your Family Together with Everyday Latin Dishes (Hardvocer ed.). Atria. p. 336. ISBN 978-1-4391-5753-4.

^ Philip Mattar (2004). Encyclopedia of the Modern Middle East & North Africa (Hardcover ed.). Macmillan Library Reference. p. 840. ISBN 0-02-865771-3.

^ a b Cuisine in Bahrain. Allo' Expat Bahrain (Website). Accessed April 2011.

^ a b "Foods of Iraq: Enshrined With A Long History - ThingsAsian". www.thingsasian.com. Archived from the original on May 13, 2011.

^ a b "Food in Saudi Arabia" Archived 2012-09-05 at the Wayback Machine. Food in Every Country (website). Accessed May 2010.

^ Nur İlkin - A Taste of Turkish cuisine

^ Aarssen, Jeroen; Backus, Ad (2000). Colloquial Turkish. Routledge. p. 71. ISBN 978-0-415-15746-9. Archived from the original on October 13, 2017. Retrieved February 23, 2019.

^ Gold, Rozanne A Region's Tastes Commingle in Israel Archived 2011-09-10 at Wikiwix (July 20, 1994) in The New York Times Retrieved 2010–02–14

External links

Media related to Cuisine of Asia at Wikimedia Commons

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

Afghanistan

Armenia

Azerbaijan

Bahrain

Bangladesh

Bhutan

Brunei

Burma (Myanmar)

Cambodia

Cyprus

East Timor (Timor-Leste)

Georgia

Indonesia

Israel

Jordan

Kazakhstan

North Korea

South Korea

Kuwait

Kyrgyzstan

Lebanon

Malaysia

Maldives

Mongolia

Pakistan

Philippines

Russia

Saudi Arabia

Singapore

Sri Lanka

Tajikistan

Thailand

Turkey

Turkmenistan

United Arab Emirates

Uzbekistan

Vietnam

Abkhazia

Northern Cyprus

Palestine

South Ossetia

Taiwan

British Indian Ocean Territory

Christmas Island

Cocos (Keeling) Islands

Hong Kong

# Chinese cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Chinese cuisine comprises cuisines originating from China, as well as from Chinese people from other parts of the world. Because of the Chinese diaspora and the historical power of the country, Chinese cuisine has profoundly influenced other cuisines in Asia and beyond, with modifications made to cater to local palates. Chinese food staples like rice, soy sauce, noodles, tea, chili oil, and tofu, and utensils such as chopsticks and the wok, can now be found worldwide.

The world's earliest eating establishments recognizable as restaurants in the modern sense first emerged in the Song dynasty China during the 11th and 12th centuries. Street food became an integral aspect of Chinese food culture in the 7th century during the Tang dynasty, and the street food culture of much of Southeast Asia was established by workers imported from China during the late 19th century.

The preferences for seasoning and cooking techniques in Chinese provinces depend on differences in social class, religion, historical background, and ethnic groups. Geographic features including mountains, rivers, forests, and deserts also have a strong effect on the locally available ingredients, considering that the climate of China varies from tropical in the south to subarctic in the northeast. Imperial royal and noble preferences also play a role in the change of Chinese cuisine. Because of imperial expansion, immigration, and trading, ingredients and cooking techniques from other cultures have been integrated into Chinese cuisines over time and Chinese culinary influences have spread worldwide.

There are numerous regional, religious, and ethnic styles of Chinese cuisine found within China and abroad. Chinese cuisine is highly diverse and most frequently categorised into provincial divisions, although these province-level classifications consist of many more styles within themselves. During the Qing dynasty, the most praised Four Great Traditions in Chinese cuisine were Chuan, Lu, Yue, and Huaiyang, representing cuisines of West, North, South, and East China, respectively. In 1980, a modern grouping from Chinese journalist Wang Shaoquan's article published in the People's Daily newspaper identified the Eight Cuisines of China as Anhui (徽菜; Huīcài), Guangdong (粵菜; Yuècài), Fujian (閩菜; Mǐncài), Hunan (湘菜; Xiāngcài), Jiangsu (蘇菜; Sūcài), Shandong (魯菜; Lǔcài), Sichuan (川菜; Chuāncài), and Zhejiang (浙菜; Zhècài).

Chinese cuisine is deeply intertwined with traditional Chinese medicine, such as in the practise of Chinese food therapy. Color, scent and taste are the three traditional aspects used to describe Chinese food, as well as the meaning, appearance, and nutrition of the food. Cooking should be appraised with respect to the ingredients used, knife work, cooking time, and seasoning.

History

Pre-Tang dynasty

Chinese society greatly valued gastronomy, and developed an extensive study of the subject based on its traditional medical beliefs. Chinese culture initially centered around the North China Plain. The first domesticated crops seem to have been the foxtail and broomcorn varieties of millet, while rice was cultivated in the south. By 2000 BC, wheat had arrived from western Asia. These grains were typically served as warm noodle soups instead of baked into bread as in Europe. Nobles hunted various wild game and consumed mutton, pork and dog as these animals were domesticated. Grain was stored against famine and flood and meat was preserved with salt, vinegar, curing, and fermenting. The flavor of the meat was enhanced by cooking it in animal fats though this practice was mostly restricted to the wealthy.

By the time of Confucius in the late Zhou, gastronomy had become a high art. Confucius discussed the principles of dining:

The rice would never be too white, the meat would never be too finely cut... When it was not cooked right, man would not eat. When it was cooked bad, man would not eat. When the meat was not cut properly, man would not eat. When the food was not prepared with the right sauce, man would not eat. Although there are plenty of meats, they should not be cooked more than staple food. There is no limit for alcohol, before a man gets drunk.

The Lüshi chunqiu notes: "Only if one is chosen as the Son of Heaven will the tastiest delicacies be prepared [for him]."

The Zhaohun (4–3rd c. BC) gives some examples: turtle ragout, honey cakes and beer (chilled with ice).

During Shi Huangdi's Qin dynasty, the empire expanded into the south. By the time of the Han dynasty, the different regions and cuisines of China's people were linked by major canals and leading to greater complexity in the different regional cuisines. Not only is food seen as giving "qi", energy, but the food is also about maintaining yin and yang. The philosophy behind it was rooted in the I Ching and Chinese traditional medicine: food was judged for color, aroma, taste, and texture and a good meal was expected to balance the Four Natures ('hot', warm, cool, and 'cold') and the Five Tastes (pungent, sweet, sour, bitter, and salty). Salt was used as a preservative from early times, but in cooking was added in the form of soy sauce, and not at the table.

By the Later Han period (2nd century), writers[who?] frequently complained of lazy aristocrats who did nothing but sit around all day eating smoked meats and roasts.

During the Han dynasty, the Chinese developed methods of food preservation for military rations during campaigns such as drying meat into jerky and cooking, roasting, and drying grain. Chinese legends claim that the roasted, flat bread shaobing was brought back from the Xiyu (the Western Regions, a name for Central Asia) by the Han dynasty General Ban Chao, and that it was originally known as hubing (胡餅, lit. "barbarian bread"). The shaobing is believed to be descended from the hubing. Shaobing is believed to be related to the Persian nan and Central Asian nan, as well as the Middle Eastern pita. Foreign westerners made and sold sesame cakes in China during the Tang dynasty.

During the Southern and Northern dynasties non-Han people like the Xianbei of Northern Wei introduced their cuisine to northern China, and these influences continued up to the Tang dynasty, popularizing meat like mutton and dairy products like goat milk, yogurts, and Kumis among even Han people. It was during the Song dynasty that Han Chinese developed an aversion to dairy products and abandoned the dairy foods introduced earlier.

The Han Chinese rebel Wang Su who received asylum in the Xianbei Northern Wei after fleeing from Southern Qi, at first could not stand eating dairy products like goat's milk and meat like mutton and had to consume tea and fish instead, but after a few years he was able to eat yogurt and lamb, and the Xianbei Emperor asked him which of the foods of China (Zhongguo) he preferred, fish vs mutton and tea vs yogurt.

Post-Tang dynasty

The great migration of Chinese people south during the invasions preceding and during the Song dynasty increased the relative importance of southern Chinese staples such as rice and congee. Su Dongpo has improved the red braised pork as Dongpo pork. The dietary and culinary habits also changed greatly during this period, with many ingredients such as soy sauce and Central Asian influenced foods becoming widespread and the creation of important cookbooks such as the Shanjia Qinggong (Chinese: 山家清供; pinyin: Shānjiā qīnggòng) and the Wushi Zhongkuilu (Chinese: 吳氏中饋錄; pinyin: Wúshì zhōngkuìlù) showing the respective esoteric foods and common household cuisine of the time.

The Yuan and Qing dynasties introduced Mongolian and Manchu cuisine, warm northern dishes that popularized hot pot cooking. During the Yuan dynasty many Muslim communities emerged in China, who practiced a porkless cuisine now preserved by Hui restaurants throughout the country. Mongolian cuisine specially Mongolian beef, though popular globally, originated outside Mongolia. Mongolian beef was created in Taiwan in the 1950s, inspired by the rise of Mongolian barbecue-style cooking. Mongolian beef is a perfect example of fusion cuisine. Yunnan cuisine is unique in China for its cheeses like Rubing and Rushan cheese made by the Bai people, and its yogurt, the yogurt may have been due to a combination of Mongolian influence during the Yuan dynasty, the Central Asian settlement in Yunnan, and the proximity and influence of India and Tibet on Yunnan.

As part of the last leg of the Columbian Exchange, Spanish and Portuguese traders began introducing foods from the New World to China through the port cities of Canton and Macau. Mexican chili peppers became essential ingredients in Sichuan cuisine and calorically dense potatoes and corn became staple foods across the northern plains.[citation needed]

During the Qing dynasty, Chinese gastronomes such as Yuan Mei focused upon the primary goal of extracting the maximum flavour of each ingredient. As noted in his culinary work the Suiyuan shidan, however, the fashions of cuisine at the time were quite varied and in some cases were flamboyantly ostentatious, especially when the display served also a formal ceremonial purpose, as in the case of the Manchu Han Imperial Feast.

As the pace of life increases in modern China, fast food like fried noodles, fried rice and gaifan (dish over rice) become more and more popular.[citation needed]

Regional cuisines

Chinese cuisine exhibits an immense amount of regional diversity. A number of different styles contribute to Chinese cuisine but perhaps the best known and most influential are Cantonese cuisine, Shandong cuisine, Jiangsu cuisine (specifically Huaiyang cuisine) and Sichuan cuisine. These styles are distinctive from one another due to factors such as availability of resources, climate, geography, history, cooking techniques and lifestyle.

One style may favour the use of garlic and shallots over chili and spices, while another may favour preparing seafood over other meats and fowl. Jiangsu cuisine favours cooking techniques such as braising and stewing, while Sichuan cuisine employs baking. Zhejiang cuisine focuses more on serving fresh food, Fujian cuisine is famous for its seafood and soups and the use of spices, Hunan cuisine is famous for its hot and salty taste, Anhui cuisine incorporates wild ingredients for an unusual taste.

Based on the raw materials and ingredients used, the method of preparation and cultural differences, a variety of foods with different flavors and textures are prepared in different regions of the country. Many traditional regional cuisines rely on basic methods of preservation such as drying, salting, pickling and fermentation.

In addition, the "rice theory" attempts to describe cultural differences between north and south China; in the north, noodles are more consumed due to wheat being widely grown whereas in the south, rice is more preferred as it has historically been more cultivated there.

Staple foods

Chinese ancestors successfully planted millet, rice, and other grains about 8,000 to 9,000 years ago. Wheat, another staple, took another three or four thousand years. For the first time, grains provided people with a steady supply of food. Because of the lack of various foods, Chinese people had to adapt to new eating habits. Meat was scarce, and so people cooked with small amounts of meat and rice or noodles.

Rice was domesticated in the Yangtze River basin in southern China approximately 9,000 years ago and is a primary staple food for people from rice farming areas in southern China. Steamed rice (Chinese: 米饭 mǐfàn), usually white rice, is the most commonly eaten form. People in South China also like to use rice to make congee as breakfast. Rice is also used to produce beer and vinegar. Glutinous rice ("sticky rice") is a variety of rice used in special dishes such as lotus leaf rice and glutinous rice balls.

In wheat-farming areas in Northern China, people largely rely on flour-based food, such as noodles, bing (bread), jiaozi (a kind of Chinese dumplings), and mantou (a type of steamed buns). Wheat likely "appeared in the lower Yellow River around 2600 Before Common Era (BCE), followed by Gansu and Xinjiang around 1900 BCE and finally occurred in the middle Yellow River and Tibet regions by 1600 BCE".

Noodles

Noodles (Chinese: 面/麵 miàn) were invented in China over 4,000 years ago and have since spread across the world. Chinese noodles come dry or fresh in a variety of sizes, shapes and textures and are often served in soups or fried as toppings. Some varieties, such as Shou Mian (寿面, literally noodles of longevity), is an avatar of long life and good health according to Chinese traditions. Noodles can be served hot or cold with different toppings, with broth, and occasionally dry (as is the case with mi-fen). Noodles are commonly made with rice flour or wheat flour, but other flours such as soybean are also used in minor groups. Some noodles names describe their methods of creation, such as the hand-pulled noodle.

Soybean products

Tofu is made of soybeans and is another popular food product that supplies protein. The production process of tofu varies from region to region, resulting in different kinds of tofu with a wide range of texture and taste. Other products such as soy milk, soy paste, soy oil, and fermented soy sauce are also important in Chinese cooking.

There are many kinds of soybean products, including tofu skin, smoked tofu, dried tofu, and fried tofu.

Stinky tofu is fermented tofu. Like blue cheese or durian, it has a very distinct, potent and strong smell, and is an acquired taste. Hard stinky tofu is often deep-fried and paired with soy sauce or salty spice. Soft stinky tofu is usually used as a spread on steamed buns.

Doufuru is another type of fermented tofu that has a salty taste. Doufuru can be pickled together with soy beans, red yeast rice or chili to create different color and flavor. This is more of a pickled type of tofu and is not as strongly scented as stinky tofu. Doufuru has the consistency of slightly soft blue cheese, and a taste similar to Japanese miso paste, but less salty. Doufuru can be used as a spread on steamed buns, or paired with rice congee.

Sufu is one other type of fermented tofu that goes through ageing process. The color (red, white, green) and flavor profile can determine the type of sufu it is. This kind of tofu is usually eaten alongside breakfast rice.

Soybean milk is soybean-based milk. It is a morning beverage, and it has many benefits to human health.

Vegetables

Apart from vegetables that can be commonly seen, some unique vegetables used in Chinese cuisine include baby corn, bok choy, snow peas, Chinese eggplant, Chinese broccoli, and straw mushrooms. Other vegetables, including bean sprouts, pea vine tips, watercress, lotus roots, chestnuts, water chestnuts, and bamboo shoots, are also used in different cuisines of China.

Because of different climate and soil conditions, cultivars of green beans, peas, and mushrooms can be found in rich variety.

A variety of dried or pickled vegetables are also processed, especially in drier or colder regions where fresh vegetables were hard to get out of season.

Herbs and seasonings

Seasonings such as fresh ginger root, garlic, scallion, cilantro and sesame are widely used in many regional cuisines. Sichuan peppercorns, star anise, cinnamon, fennel, cloves and white peppers and smart weed are also used in different regions.

To add extra flavor to the dishes, many Chinese cuisines also contain dried Chinese mushrooms, dried baby shrimp, dried tangerine peel, and dried Sichuan chillies.

When it comes to sauces, China is home to soy sauce, which is made from fermented soybeans and wheat. A number of sauces are also based on fermented soybeans, including hoisin sauce, ground bean sauce and yellow bean sauce. There are also different sauces preferred by regional cuisines, oyster sauce, fish sauce and furu (fermented tofu) are also widely used. Vinegar also has a variety with different flavors: clear rice vinegar, Chinkiang black rice vinegar, Shanxi vinegar, Henghe vinegar etc.

The most commonly consumed meat in China is pork. As of at least 2024, China is the second largest beef consuming market in the world. Steakhouses and hot pot restaurants serving beef are becoming increasingly popular in urban China. Chinese consumers particularly value freshly slaughtered beef.

Desserts and snacks

Generally, seasonal fruits serve as the most common form of dessert consumed after dinner.

Dim sum (点心), originally means a small portion of food, can refer to dessert, or pastries. Later to avoid disambiguation, tian dian (甜点) and gao dian (糕点) are used to describe desserts and pastries.

Traditionally, Chinese desserts are sweet foods and dishes that are served with tea, usually during the meal, or at the end of meals in Chinese cuisine.

Besides being served as dim sum along with tea, pastries are used for celebration of traditional festivals. The most famous one is moon cake, used to celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival.

A wide variety of Chinese desserts are available, mainly including steamed and boiled sweet snacks. Bing is an umbrella term for all breads in Chinese, also including pastries and sweets. These are baked wheat-flour-based confections, with different stuffings including red bean paste, jujube, and a variety of others. Su (酥) is another kind of pastry made with more amount of oil, making the confection more friable. Chinese candies and sweets, called táng (糖) are usually made with cane sugar, malt sugar, honey, nuts, and fruit. Gao or Guo are rice-based snacks that are typically steamed and may be made from glutinous or normal rice.

Another cold dessert is called baobing, which is shaved ice with sweet syrup. Chinese jellies are known collectively in the language as ices. Many jelly desserts are traditionally set with agar and are flavoured with fruits, known as guodong (果冻), though gelatine based jellies are also common in contemporary desserts.

Chinese dessert soups are typically sweet and served hot.

European pastries are also seen in China, like mille-feuille, crème brûlée, and cheesecake, but they are generally not as popular because the Chinese preference of dessert is mildly sweet and less oily.[citation needed]

Many types of street foods, which vary from region to region, can be eaten as snacks or light dinner. Prawn crackers are an often-consumed snack in Southeast China.[citation needed]

Dairy products

Chinese in earlier dynasties evidently drank milk and ate dairy products, although not necessarily from cows, but kumis (fermented mare's milk) or goat's milk. Kumis was historically consumed in northern China.

Historically, many Chinese chefs tried not to use milk, because of the high rate of lactose intolerance among the Chinese population. However, today, dairy products are increasingly used in Chinese cuisine, such as the "double skin milk" dessert in Guangdong Province, the Rubing (milk cake) cheese in Yunnan, and yoghurt in Qinghai and Xinjiang. China has a wide variety of dairy desserts that are very popular.

Cold dishes

Cold dishes are usually served before the main meal. Besides salad and pickles as appetizers, they can range from jelly, beancurd, noodle salad, cooked meat, and sausages to jellyfish or cold soups.

Chinese sausages vary from region to region. The most common sausage is made of pork and pork fat. The flavor is generally salty-sweet in Southern China. In other parts of China, sausages are salted to be preserved. Chinese sausage is prepared in many different ways, including oven-roasting, stir-frying, and steaming.

In some part of South China, soups (Chinese: 湯/汤 tāng) are served between the cold dishes and the main dishes. In other parts of China, soups are served between the main dish and staple foods, before desserts or fruit salad. There are many traditional Chinese soups, such as wonton soup, herbal chicken soup, hot and sour soup, winter melon soup, and so on.

Drinks

Tea (Chinese: 茶 chá) plays an important role in Chinese dining culture. In China, there are two main types of tea, one is made from dried tea leaves, the other one is made by extracts from tea leaves. Baijiu and huangjiu as strong alcoholic beverages are preferred by many people as well. Wine is not so popular as other drinks in China that are consumed whilst dining, although they are usually available in the menu.

As well as with dim sum, many Chinese drink their tea with snacks such as nuts, plums, dried fruit (in particular jujube), small sweets, melon seeds, and waxberry. China was the earliest country to cultivate and drink tea, which is enjoyed by people from all social classes. Tea processing began after the Qin and Han dynasties.

The different types of Chinese tea include red (known as "black tea" outside of East Asia), white, green, yellow, oolong, and black (often called "dark tea" in English to differentiate it from "black tea"). Chinese tea is often classified into several different categories according to the variety of the tea plant from which it is sourced, the region in which it is grown, and the method of production used.

Flavored and scented teas originated in China. Jasmine, osmanthus, chrysanthemum, and ginseng are popular varieties.

Historically, compressed tea dominated and powdered tea known as matcha would be made from it. This was later supplanted by loose-leaf tea. Fermented tea drinks like kombucha originated in China, but kombucha is now better known outside of China than within the country.

There are four major tea plantation regions: Jiangbei, Jiangnan, Huanan and the southwestern region. Well known types of green tea include Longjing, Huangshan Maofeng, Bilochun, Putuofeng Cha, and Liu'an Guapian. China is the world's largest exporter of green tea.

One of the most ubiquitous accessories in modern China, after a wallet or purse and an umbrella, is a double-walled insulated glass thermos with tea leaves in the top behind a strainer.

Alcoholic beverages

The importance of baijiu (lit. "white liquor") in China (99.5% of its alcoholic market) makes it the most-consumed alcoholic spirit in the world. It dates back to the introduction of distilling during the Song dynasty; can be made from wheat, corn, or rice; and is usually around 120 proof (60% ABV). The most ubiquitous brand is the cheap Er guo tou, but Mao Tai is the premium baijiu. Other popular brands include Kang, Lu Zhou Te Qu, and Wu Liang Ye.

Huangjiu (lit. "yellow liquor") is not distilled and is a strong rice wine (10–15% ABV). Popular brands include Shaoxing Lao Jiu, Shaoxing Hua Diao, and Te Jia Fan.

While fermented grain beverages have been brewed in China for over 9,000 years, it has been long overshadowed by stronger alcohol like Baijiu and Huangjiu.

In China, plum wine made from the plum blossom is called méijiǔ (梅酒).

Herbal drinks

Chinese herb tea, also known as medicinal herbal tea, is a kind of tea made from Chinese medicinal herbs.

Other beverages

Suanmeitang is a sweet Chinese beverage made from smoked plums. Soy milk, almond milk, walnut milk and coconut milk are also drunk during the meal in different regions. In some parts of China, hawthorn and jujube juice are preferred. A small shot of fruit vinegar is served as an appetizer in Shanxi.

Nai lao or Beijing yogurt is a drinkable yogurt traditional to northern China.

Outside China

Where there are historical immigrant Chinese populations, the style of food has evolved and been adapted to local tastes and ingredients, and modified by the local cuisine, to greater or lesser extents. This has resulted in a deep Chinese influence on other national cuisines such as Cambodian cuisine, Filipino cuisine, Singaporean cuisine, Thai cuisine and Vietnamese cuisine.

Chinatowns across the world have been instrumental in shaping the national cuisines of their respective countries, such as the introduction of a street food culture to Thailand in Bangkok Chinatown. There are also a large number of forms of fusion cuisine, often popular in the country in question. Some, such as ramen (Japanese Chinese cuisine), which originated in Yokohama Chinatown, have become popular internationally.

Deep-fried meat combined with sweet and sour sauce as a cooking style receives an enormous preference outside of China. Therefore, many similar international Chinese cuisines are invented based on sweet and sour sauce, including Sweet and sour chicken (Europe and North America), Manchurian chicken (India) or tangsuyuk (South Korea).

Apart from the host country, the dishes developed in overseas Chinese cuisines are heavily dependent on the cuisines derived from the origin of the Chinese immigrants. In Korean Chinese cuisine, the dishes derive primarily from Shandong cuisine while Filipino Chinese cuisine is strongly influenced by Fujian cuisine. American Chinese cuisine has distinctive dishes (such as chop suey) originally based on Cantonese cuisine, which are more popular among non-Chinese Americans than with Chinese Americans themselves.

Chinese diaspora cuisine includes dishes that originated in mainland China but evolved abroad through migration and local adaptation. Examples include the St. Paul sandwich in the United States, bakmi ayam in Indonesia, pancit canton in the Philippines, and hủ tiếu in Vietnam, all of which reflect changes in ingredients, preparation methods, and eating habits shaped by regional tastes and availability.

American Chinese cuisine Chop suey, crab rangoon, General Tso's chicken, egg foo young, orange chicken

Chop suey, crab rangoon, General Tso's chicken, egg foo young, orange chicken

Australian Chinese cuisine Mango pancake, dim sim, XO sauce pipis

Mango pancake, dim sim, XO sauce pipis

Irish Chinese cuisine Chicken balls, Spice bag

Chicken balls, Spice bag

Burmese Chinese cuisine Kyay oh, Sigyet khauk swè

Kyay oh, Sigyet khauk swè

Canadian Chinese cuisine Ginger beef

Ginger beef

Caribbean Chinese cuisine Cha chee kai, bangamary ding

Cha chee kai, bangamary ding

Filipino Chinese cuisine Arroz caldo, Batchoy, Pancit

Arroz caldo, Batchoy, Pancit

Indian Chinese cuisine Gobi manchurian, Manchow soup

Gobi manchurian, Manchow soup

Indonesian Chinese cuisine Bakso, Cap cai, Lumpia, Mie ayam, Mie goreng, Swikee, Siomay, Kepiting saus tiram

Bakso, Cap cai, Lumpia, Mie ayam, Mie goreng, Swikee, Siomay, Kepiting saus tiram

Japanese Chinese cuisine, Shippoku Champon, Ramen, Gyoza, Kakuni, Tenshindon

Champon, Ramen, Gyoza, Kakuni, Tenshindon

Korean Chinese cuisine Jajangmyeon, jjamppong, hotteok, Tangsuyuk

Jajangmyeon, jjamppong, hotteok, Tangsuyuk

Chinese Latin American cuisine Peruvian Chinese cuisine (Chifa) Arroz chaufa, Lomo saltado Puerto Rican Chinese cuisine Carne Ahumada

Peruvian Chinese cuisine (Chifa) Arroz chaufa, Lomo saltado

Arroz chaufa, Lomo saltado

Puerto Rican Chinese cuisine Carne Ahumada

Carne Ahumada

Malaysian Chinese cuisine/Singapore Chinese cuisine Hainanese chicken rice, Bak kut teh, Heong Peng, Yam ring, Kaya toast (often seen in kopitiam) Peranakan cuisine Laksa (include Curry mee), Ayam buah keluak, Pie tee

Hainanese chicken rice, Bak kut teh, Heong Peng, Yam ring, Kaya toast (often seen in kopitiam)

Hainanese chicken rice, Bak kut teh, Heong Peng, Yam ring, Kaya toast (often seen in kopitiam)

Peranakan cuisine Laksa (include Curry mee), Ayam buah keluak, Pie tee

Laksa (include Curry mee), Ayam buah keluak, Pie tee

New Zealand Chinese cuisine

Pakistani Chinese cuisine Jalfrezi

Jalfrezi

Thai Chinese cuisine Pad thai, Khao soi, Phat kaphrao, Thai suki

Pad thai, Khao soi, Phat kaphrao, Thai suki

Cambodian Chinese cuisine Kuyteav, Lort cha

Kuyteav, Lort cha

Vietnamese Chinese cuisine Banh bao

Banh bao

Dining etiquette

Youths should not begin eating before their elders do. When eating from a bowl, one should not hold it with its bottom part, because it resembles the act of begging. Chopsticks are the main eating utensils for Chinese food, which can be used to cut and pick up food. When someone is taking a break from eating at the table, they should not put the chopstick into the rice vertically, because it resembles the Chinese traditional funeral tribute, which involves putting chopsticks inside a bowl of rice vertically. It is considered inappropriate to use knives on the dining table. Chopsticks should not be waved around in the air or played with. Food should first be taken from the plate in front. It is considered impolite to stare at a plate. Watching TV, using mobile phones or doing other activities while eating is considered in poor taste. If an older person puts food in a younger person's bowl, the younger person should thank them.

Chinese culture has guidelines in how and when food are eaten. Chinese people typically eat three meals a day, consisting of breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Breakfast is served around 6–9am, lunch is served around 12–2pm, and dinner is served around 6–9pm. A late night, fourth meal of the day is known as siu yeh and served from 9pm-4am, which is similar to the Western concept of supper. Within the Chinese culture, families do follow different traditions. In some families, the elderly members and youngsters get their meal first, then the mother and father, and then the children and teenagers. Other families have the male and female eat separately at different seating area. Whatever tradition the family decide to follow, it is intended to show respect to members of the family.

Relation to Chinese philosophy and religion

Food plays various roles in social and cultural life. In Chinese folk religion, ancestor veneration is conducted by offering food to ancestors and Chinese festivals involve the consumption and preparation of specific foods which have symbolic meanings attached to them. Specific religions in China have their own cuisines such as the Taoist diet, Buddhist cuisine and Chinese Islamic Cuisine.

The Kaifeng Jews in Henan province once had their own Chinese Jewish cuisine but the community has largely died out in the modern era and not much is known about the specifics of their cuisine but they did influence foods eaten in their region and some of their dishes remain. Chinese dishes with purported Kaifeng Jewish roots include Kaifeng xiao long bao, Mayuxing bucket-shaped chicken, Chrysanthemum hot pot, and Four Treasures.

Food also plays a role in daily life. The formality of the meal setting can signify what kind of relationship people have with one another, and the type of food can indicate ones' social status and their country of origin. In a formal setting, up to sixteen of any combination of hot and cold dishes would be served to respect the guests. On the other hand, in a casual setting, people would eat inexpensive meals such as at food stalls or homemade food. The typical disparity in food in the Chinese society between the wealthy and everyone below that group lies in the rarity and cost of the food or ingredient, such as shark fins and bear paws.

Depending on whether one chooses to have rice or a meal that is made of wheat flour such as bread or noodles as their main source of food, people within a similar culture or of a different background can make an assumption of the other's country of origin from the south or north of China. Different foods have different symbolic meanings. Mooncakes and dumplings are symbolic of the Mid-autumn festival and the Spring Festival, respectively. Pear symbolizes bad luck due to its similarity in pronunciation of 'away' in the native language and noodle means living a long life for its length.

In Chinese philosophy, food frequently conveys a message. A Chinese philosophy I Ching says, "Gentlemen use eating as a way to attain happiness. They should be aware of what they say, and refrain from eating too much."

See also

Food portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

A Bite of China by CCTV

The eight major traditions of Chinese cuisine Shandong cuisine Sichuan cuisine Cantonese cuisine Fujian cuisine Jiangsu cuisine Zhejiang cuisine Hunan cuisine Anhui cuisine

Shandong cuisine

Sichuan cuisine

Cantonese cuisine

Fujian cuisine

Jiangsu cuisine

Zhejiang cuisine

Hunan cuisine

Anhui cuisine

Other traditions in Chinese cuisine Beijing cuisine Chinese imperial cuisine Shanghai cuisine Huaiyang cuisine Hubei cuisine Jiangxi cuisine Henan cuisine Shanxi cuisine Shaanxi cuisine Chinese Islamic cuisine Uyghur cuisine Mongolian cuisine Manchu cuisine Northeastern Chinese cuisine Guizhou cuisine Tibetan cuisine Yunnan cuisine Teochew cuisine

Beijing cuisine Chinese imperial cuisine

Chinese imperial cuisine

Shanghai cuisine

Huaiyang cuisine

Hubei cuisine

Jiangxi cuisine

Henan cuisine

Shanxi cuisine

Shaanxi cuisine

Chinese Islamic cuisine Uyghur cuisine

Uyghur cuisine

Mongolian cuisine

Manchu cuisine

Northeastern Chinese cuisine

Guizhou cuisine

Tibetan cuisine

Yunnan cuisine

Teochew cuisine

List of Chinese bakery products

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese sauces

List of Chinese soups

Chinese regional cuisine

Chinese food therapy

History of Chinese cuisine

Customs and etiquette in Chinese dining

Chinese cooking techniques

Chinese Cuisine Training Institute

List of restaurants in China

Pizza in China

References

^ Roos, Dave (18 May 2020). "When Did People Start Eating in Restaurants?". History.com. Archived from the original on 27 June 2023. Retrieved 22 June 2023.

^ Gernet (1962:133)

^ Petrini, Carlo, ed. (2001). Slow Food: Collected Thoughts on Taste, Tradition, and the Honest Pleasures ... Chelsea Green Publishing. ISBN 9781603581721.

^ "Four Major Cuisines in China". CITS. Archived from the original on 11 January 2017. Retrieved 10 January 2017.

^ a b Dunlop, Fuchsia (2023). Invitation to a Banquet.

^ "Fujian Cuisine. Beautyfujian.com Archived 10 July 2011 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed June 2011.

^ "Beijing cuisine and Peking roasted duck." Archived 10 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine ChinaTour.Net Archived 15 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed Dec 2011.

^ This standard starts from Tang dynasty in the 6th century by Bai Juyi from the Preface of Lychee Diagram: After leaving branch...for four and five days, the color, smell, and taste (of lychee) will be gone. (《荔枝圖序》：「若離本枝……四五日外，色、香、味盡去矣」。）

^ "Braised Shredded Dried Tofu". China Today. 14 June 2011. Archived from the original on 2 March 2019. Retrieved 10 January 2017.

^ Wertz, Richard R. "The Cultural Heritage of China: Cuisine". www.ibiblio.org. Archived from the original on 21 July 2023. Retrieved 2 May 2016.

^ Analects, Book 10 Xiang Dang (鄉黨), Chapter 6, Verse 8: 食不厭精，膾不厭細。……失飪不食。……割不正，不食。不得其醬，不食。肉雖多，不使勝食氣。惟酒無量，不及亂。

^ Hollman, Thomas. The Land of the Five Flavors. Columbia University Press.

^ Roberts, J.A.G. (2004). China to Chinatown. Globalities. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9781861892270. Retrieved 10 December 2015.

^ Anderson (1988), p. 267.

^ Anderson (1988), p. 52.

^ Huang, H. T. (2000). Fermentations and Food Science, Volume 6. Cambridge University Press. p. 474. ISBN 0521652707. Retrieved 24 April 2014.

^ Anderson (1988), p. 143, 144, 218.

^ Simoons, Frederick J. (1990). Food in China: A Cultural and Historical Inquiry. CRC Press. p. 89. ISBN 084938804X. Retrieved 24 April 2014.

^ Free China Review, Volume 45, Issues 7-12. W.Y. Tsao. 1995. p. 66. Retrieved 24 April 2014.

^ Charles Holcombe (January 2001). The Genesis of East Asia: 221 B.C. - A.D. 907. University of Hawaii Press. pp. 129–. ISBN 978-0-8248-2465-5.

^ Schafer, Edward H. (1963). The Golden Peaches of Samarkand: A Study of Tʻang Exotics (illustrated, reprint, revised ed.). University of California Press. p. 29. Retrieved 24 April 2014.

^ Anderson (1988), p. 80.

^ Pearce, Scott; Spiro, Audrey G.; Ebrey, Patricia Buckley, eds. (2001). Culture and Power in the Reconstitution of the Chinese Realm, 200-600. Vol. 200 of Harvard East Asian monographs (illustrated ed.). Harvard Univ Asia Center. p. 22. ISBN 0674005236. Retrieved 24 April 2014.

^ Lewis, Mark Edward (2009). China Between Empires. Harvard University Press. p. 126. ISBN 978-0674026056. Retrieved 24 April 2014. wang su yoghurt.

^ Huang, H. T. (2000). Fermentations and Food Science, Volume 6. Cambridge University Press. p. 511. ISBN 0521652707. Retrieved 24 April 2014.

^ Choo, Jessey Jiun-chyi; et al. (2014), "Everyday Life", Early Medieval China: A Sourcebook, New York: Columbia University Press, p. 434, ISBN 978-0-231-15987-6.

^ 《東坡續集》卷十：《豬肉頌》：“洗凈鐺，少著水，柴頭罨煙燄不起。待他自熟莫催他，火候足時他自美。黃州好豬肉，價賤如泥土。貴者不肯食，貧者不解煮。早晨起來打兩碗，飽得自家君莫管。”

^ Höllmann, Thomas O. (2014). The land of the five flavors : a cultural history of Chinese cuisine. Karen Margolis. New York. ISBN 978-0-231-53654-7. OCLC 868132659.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)

^ ALI, BAKHAT (2 December 2024). "Why is China King Mongolian Beef a must-try dish? (Price Included)". China King Menu. BAKHAT ALI. Retrieved 4 January 2025.

^ Anderson (1988), p. 91, 178.

^ "Things to Avoid 3: Meals for the Ears (戒耳餐)". Translating the Suiyuan Shidan. 22 May 2014. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 8 March 2015.

^ "Things to Avoid 12: Cliché (戒落套)". Translating the Suiyuan Shidan. 5 September 2014. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 8 March 2015.

^ a b c d e f g h Yao, Zhang. China Everyday!. Page One Pub. 2007. ISBN 978-981-245-330-3

^ "Regions of Chinese food-styles/flavors of cooking." Archived 5 October 2011 at the Wayback Machine University of Kansas, Kansas Asia Scholars. Accessed June 2011.

^ ""China's Culinary Diversity in One Map"". The Atlantic. 26 July 2013. Archived from the original on 5 April 2023. Retrieved 6 March 2017.

^ Chuankang, Cheng (15 May 1994). "THE CULTURE OF CHINESE DIET:REGIONAL DIFFERENTIATION AND DEVELOPING TRENDS". Acta Geographica Sinica (in Chinese). 61 (3): 226–235. ISSN 0375-5444. Archived from the original on 28 July 2020. Retrieved 27 November 2019.

^ a b J. Li & Y. Hsieh. Traditional Chinese Food Technology and Cuisine. Asia Pacific Journal of Clinical Nutrition. 2004;13(2): 147–155.

^ "'Rice theory' explains north-south China cultural differences". Archived from the original on 10 September 2019. Retrieved 6 September 2019.

^ Callaway, Ewen (October 2014). "Domestication: The birth of rice". Nature. 514 (7524): S58–S59. Bibcode:2014Natur.514S..58C. doi:10.1038/514S58a. ISSN 1476-4687. PMID 25368889. S2CID 4457200.

^ a b c d e f Ma, Guansheng (December 2015). "Food, eating behavior, and culture in Chinese society". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 2 (4): 195–199. doi:10.1016/j.jef.2015.11.004.

^ Ma, Guansheng (December 2015). "Food, eating behavior, and culture in Chinese society". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 2 (4): 195–199. doi:10.1016/j.jef.2015.11.004.

^ "Chinese Rice Porridge (Congee) Recipe". Eating China. Retrieved 14 October 2021.

^ Long, Tengwen; Leipe, Christian; Jin, Guiyun; Wagner, Mayke; Guo, Rongzhen; Schröder, Oskar; Tarasov, Pavel E. (2018). "The early history of wheat in China from 14C dating and Bayesian chronological modelling". Nature Plants. 4 (5): 272–279. doi:10.1038/s41477-018-0141-x. ISSN 2055-0278. PMID 29725102. S2CID 19156382. Archived from the original on 12 December 2022. Retrieved 4 December 2021.

^ Zhang, Na; Ma, Guansheng (1 September 2016). "Noodles, traditionally and today". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 3 (3): 209–212. doi:10.1016/j.jef.2016.08.003. ISSN 2352-6181.

^ Han, B. Z.; Rombouts, F. M.; Nout, M. J. (11 April 2001). "A Chinese fermented soybean food". International Journal of Food Microbiology. 65 (1–2): 1–10. doi:10.1016/s0168-1605(00)00523-7. ISSN 0168-1605. PMID 11322691.

^ Yu, Hansong; Liu, Ruixue; Hu, Yaohui; Xu, Baojun (31 December 2017). "Flavor profiles of soymilk processed with four different processing technologies and 26 soybean cultivars grown in China". International Journal of Food Properties. 20 (sup3): S2887–S2898. doi:10.1080/10942912.2017.1382507. ISSN 1094-2912. S2CID 103900286.

^ "Top 10 basic ingredients for Chinese cooking". Archived from the original on 30 May 2010. Retrieved 30 May 2010.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link) [The Times]. Accessed June 2011.

^ Yan, Martin. "Chinese Cooking For Dummies". Archived from the original on 5 June 2013. Retrieved 23 February 2013.

^ Simonds, Nina (2 June 1993). "Chinese Restaurants Are Adding Herbs for Flavor and Health". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on 1 December 2017. Retrieved 6 January 2024.

^ a b c Han, Enze (2024). The Ripple Effect: China's Complex Presence in Southeast Asia. New York, NY: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-769659-0.

^ Lin, Kathy. "Chinese Food Cultural Profile". Archived from the original on 25 May 2013. Retrieved 23 February 2013.

^ Fu Pei-Mei (2010). Pei-Mei's Chinese Cook Book Volume 2. Menlo Park, CA: Askmar Publishing. ISBN 978-1-935842-05-7.

^ Jurafsky, Dan (6 October 2009). "The Language of Food: Dessert". The Language of Food. Archived from the original on 17 March 2017. Retrieved 16 March 2017.

^ Wertz, Richard R. (2016). "Food & Drink: Cuisine". The Cultural Heritage of China. Archived from the original on 21 April 2017. Retrieved 17 March 2017.

^ "Daoxiangcun - Introduction of Beijing Local Special Product" (in Chinese). Visit Beijing. Archived from the original on 13 January 2017. Retrieved 11 January 2017.

^ a b c d e "Chinese Desserts." Archived 2 July 2011 at the Wayback Machine Kaleidoscope - Cultural China Archived 11 July 2011 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed June 2011.

^ "jelly". dictionary.cambridge.org. Cambridge Dictionary. Archived from the original on 3 May 2022. Retrieved 17 February 2021.

^ Anderson 1988, p. 80.

^ Parkinson, Rhonda. "How To Cook Chinese Sausage". Archived from the original on 2 April 2013. Retrieved 23 February 2013.

^ "Winter Melon Soup Recipe". Simple Chinese Food. Archived from the original on 22 October 2021. Retrieved 22 October 2021.

^ Pan, Si-Yuan; Nie, Qu; Tai, Hai-Chuan; Song, Xue-Lan; Tong, Yu-Fan; Zhang, Long-Jian-Feng; Wu, Xue-Wei; Lin, Zhao-Heng; Zhang, Yong-Yu; Ye, Du-Yun; Zhang, Yi (22 February 2022). "Tea and tea drinking: China's outstanding contributions to the mankind". Chinese Medicine. 17 (1): 27. doi:10.1186/s13020-022-00571-1. ISSN 1749-8546. PMC 8861626. PMID 35193642.

^ a b c Q. Hong & F. Chunjian. Origins of Chinese Tea and Wine. Asiapac Books Pte Ltd. 2005.ISBN 9812293698.

^ a b Zonglin Chang Xukui Li. Aspect of Chinese Culture. 2006.ISBN 7302126321, ISBN 978-7-302-12632-4.

^ The Economist. "Daily Chart: High Spirits Archived 29 June 2017 at the Wayback Machine". 17 June 2013. Accessed 9 August 2013.

^ Sandhaus, Derek (8 July 2020). "Craft beer in China: A brief and complete history". SupChina. Archived from the original on 23 August 2020. Retrieved 8 September 2020.

^ Wulin, Ji; 紀戊霖 (3 February 2010). Zhong yao cai cha liao shi dian. Tai bei xian xin dian shi: Yuan hua fa xing chu ban fa xing. ISBN 9789866612794. OCLC 815400238.

^ Andrew Coe, Chop Suey: A Cultural History of Chinese Food in the United States (2009)

^ Yong Chen, Chop Suey, USA: The Story of Chinese Food in America (2014)

^ "Chinese Dishes That Don't Really Look Like Chinese Dishes Anymore - RADII". radii.co. 20 January 2026. Retrieved 23 January 2026.

^ "Why Chinese use chopsticks while Westerners use knives and forks?" (in Chinese). Sina Zhishi. 16 February 2017. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018. Retrieved 11 June 2018.

^ "Why the length of chopsticks are 7 cun 6 fen?" (in Chinese). KK News. 2 September 2016. Archived from the original on 21 May 2023. Retrieved 11 June 2018.

^ Cooper, Eugene (1986). "Chinese Table Manners: You Are How You Eat". Human Organization. 45 (2): 179–184. doi:10.17730/humo.45.2.4034u85x3058m025 (inactive 10 January 2026). ISSN 0018-7259. JSTOR 44126118.{{cite journal}}: CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of January 2026 (link)

^ a b c "Chinese Food Culture - Understand your behavior when eating in China". Yum Of China. 20 April 2019. Archived from the original on 8 November 2021. Retrieved 14 November 2021.

^ Kaifeng, Capital and Culinary Archived 14 October 2018 at the Wayback Machine, Flavor and Fortune

^ "Kaifeng: A Chinese Jewish Haven". www.flavorandfortune.com. Archived from the original on 1 February 2023. Retrieved 1 February 2023.

^ 《易》曰：君子以飲食宴樂。又曰：君子慎言語，節飲食。; “Yì” yuē: Jūnzǐ yǐ yǐnshí yàn lè.

Sources

Anderson, Eugene N. (1988). The Food of China. New Haven: Yale University Press. ISBN 0300047398.

Gernet, Jacques (1962). Daily Life in China on the Eve of the Mongol Invasion, 1250–1276. Stanford University Press. ISBN 0-8047-0720-0. {{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help)

Further reading

History

Fu, Jia-Chen; King, Michelle; Klein, Jakob, eds. (2025). Modern Chinese Foodways. MIT Press. ISBN 9780262381642.

Chang, Kwang-chih (1977). Food in Chinese Culture: Anthropological and Historical Perspectives. New Haven: Yale University Press. ISBN 0300019386.

David R. Knechtges, "A Literary Feast: Food in Early Chinese Literature," Journal of the American Oriental Society 106.1 (1986): 49–63.

Newman, Jacqueline M. (2004). Food Culture in China. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press. ISBN 0313325812.

Roberts, J. A. G. (2002). China to Chinatown: Chinese Food in the West. London: Reaktion. ISBN 1861891334.

Sterckx, Roel. Food, Sacrifice, and Sagehood in Early China. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2011 (2015).

Sterckx, Roel. Chinese Thought. From Confucius to Cook Ding. London: Penguin, 2019.

Swislocki, Mark (2009). Culinary Nostalgia: Regional Food Culture and the Urban Experience in Shanghai. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press. ISBN 9780804760126.

Waley-Cohen, Joanna (2007). "Celebrated Cooks of China's Past". Flavor & Fortune. 14 (4): 5–7, 24. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015.

Endymion Wilkinson, "Chinese Culinary History (Feature Review)," China Review International 8.2 (Fall 2001): 285–302.

Wilkinson, Endymion (2022). Chinese History: A New Manual. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0674260184.

Wu, David Y. H.; Cheung, Sidney C. H. (2002). The Globalization of Chinese Food. Richmond, Surrey: Curzon. ISBN 0700714030.

Cookbooks

Buwei Yang Chao. How to Cook and Eat in Chinese. (New York: John Day, 1945; revisions and reprints).

Fuchsia Dunlop. Land of Plenty: A Treasury of Authentic Sichuan Cooking. (New York: Norton, 2003). ISBN 0393051773.

Fuchsia Dunlop. Revolutionary Chinese Cookbook: Recipes from Hunan Province. (New York: Norton, 2007). ISBN 0393062228.

Fuchsia Dunlop. Shark's Fin and Sichuan Pepper: A Sweet-Sour Memoir of Eating in China. (New York: Norton, 2008). ISBN 9780393066579.

Chinese cook book by Vernon Galster

Emily Hahn, Recipes, The Cooking of China. (Alexandria, Va.: Time-Life Books, Foods of the World, 1981).

Hsiang-Ju Lin and Tsuifeng Lin. Chinese Gastronomy. (London: Nelson, 1969; rpr.). ISBN 0171470575.

Yan-Kit So. Classic Food of China. (London: Macmillan, rpr 1994, 1992). ISBN 9780333576717.

Martin Yan. Martin Yan's Chinatown Cooking: 200 Traditional Recipes from 11 Chinatowns around the World. (New York: Morrow, 2002). ISBN 0060084758.

Georgina Freedman. Cooking South of The Clouds: Recipes and Stories From China's Yunnan Province. (Octopus; Kyle, 2018). ISBN 9780857834980.

External links

K.C. Chang "Food in Chinese Culture" Asia Society

"Chinese food made easy" at the BBC

"Chinese Culinary History (Websites for Research) Stony Brook University Libraries.

History

Timeline

Historiography

Military history

Language

Economic before 1912 1912–1949 1949–present

before 1912

1912–1949

1949–present

Ethnic groups

Foreign relations

Dynasties

Monarchs

Paleolithic

Neolithic Yellow River Yangtze Liao

Yellow River

Yangtze

Shang Late

Zhou Western Zhou Spring and Autumn Warring States

Western Zhou

Spring and Autumn

Warring States

Three Kingdoms Wei Han Wu

Jin (266–420)

Sixteen Kingdoms

Northern and Southern dynasties

Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms

Jin (1115–1234)

Qing High Qing Century of humiliation Taiping Rebellion

High Qing

Century of humiliation

Taiping Rebellion

Eunuch

1911 Revolution

Beiyang government

Nationalist government Chinese Civil War Chinese Communist Revolution

Chinese Civil War

Chinese Communist Revolution

People's Republic of China Cultural Revolution Reform and opening up Tiananmen Square COVID-19 persecution of Uyghurs

Cultural Revolution

Reform and opening up

Tiananmen Square

COVID-19

persecution of Uyghurs

List of massacres in China

Borders

Extreme points

Geology

Natural disasters

Northeast

South Central Central South

Central

Western Northwestern Southwestern

Northwestern

Southwestern

Canyons

Deserts

Grasslands

Islands

Mountains ranges passes

ranges

passes

Peninsulas

Northeast / North / Central Plains

Valleys

Volcanoes

Canals

Rivers

Waterfalls

Wetlands

Water resources

Seas Bohai Yellow East China South China

Yellow

East China

South China

Climate change

Climate policy

Environmental issues

Environmental policy

Protected areas

National parks

Nature reserves

UNESCO Biosphere Reserves

Wildlife Fauna Flora

Baseline islands

Border crossings

Cities

Province-level subdivisions

Judicial system

Human rights LGBT in Tibet

in Tibet

Law enforcement Penal system

Penal system

Naming laws

Nationality law

Terrorism

Civil service

Constitution

Democracy Pro-democratisation

Pro-democratisation

Elections

Environmental policy

Foreign relations

Laogai

National People's Congress Standing Committee

Standing Committee

National security

Political parties and movements Chinese Communist Party General Secretary Politburo Democratic parties (China) United front Political Consultative Conference System of multi-party cooperation and political consultation

Chinese Communist Party General Secretary Politburo

General Secretary

Politburo

Democratic parties (China)

United front Political Consultative Conference

Political Consultative Conference

System of multi-party cooperation and political consultation

Socialism with Chinese characteristics Primary stage of socialism

Primary stage of socialism

President Vice President

Vice President

State Council Premier Vice Premier

Premier

Vice Premier

Whole-process people's democracy

One country, two systems

Outline of military history

Central Military Commission

Cyberwarfare and China

Ministry of National Defense

People's Liberation Army Ground Navy Air Rocket Strategic Support

Ground

Rocket

Strategic Support

People's Armed Police Coast Guard

Coast Guard

Militia Maritime Militia

Maritime Militia

Agriculture

Aquaculture

Banking Central bank

Central bank

Chinese property sector crisis (2020–present)

Currency

Economic history Reform and opening up Special economic zones

Reform and opening up

Special economic zones

E-commerce Online advertising

Online advertising

Economic inequality in China

Energy Coal Petroleum Renewable

Petroleum

Renewable

Forced evictions

Foreign aid received

Foreign aid program

Historical GDP

Housing

Income inequality in China

Industry Chemical Gold mining Semiconductors Steel Textiles

Chemical

Gold mining

Semiconductors

Textiles

Labor relations

Poverty

Real estate

Standard of living

Taxation

Tourism

Underoccupied developments

Unemployment

Architecture Housing

Housing

Telecommunications Internet

Internet

Water supply and sanitation

Automotive industry

Civil aviation

Shipping industry

Space program

Abortion

Censorship

Chinese Dream

Chinese language Standard Chinese Written Chinese

Standard Chinese

Written Chinese

Crime Corruption Prostitution Sex trafficking

Corruption

Prostitution

Sex trafficking

Education Literacy

Literacy

Freedom of the press

Harmonious Society

Health Food safety incidents HIV/AIDS

Food safety incidents

incidents

HIV/AIDS

Intellectualism

Internment camps

Martyrdom

Surveillance

Propaganda

Protest "Mass incidents"

"Mass incidents"

Public holidays

Rural society

Science and technology history

history

Sexuality

Social issues Patriarchy Racism Regional discrimination Suicide

Patriarchy

Racism

Regional discrimination

Suicide

Social relations Structure

Structure

Tang ping

Urban society

Welfare

Archaeology

Archives

Calligraphy

Cinema

Cuisine

Libraries

Literature Poetry

Poetry

Martial arts

Mass media

Philosophy

Smoking

Tea culture

Variety art

Major Historical and Cultural Sites

World Heritage Sites

Flowers of the Four Seasons

Gang of Four

Four arts

Four Beauties

Four Classic Novels

Four Gentlemen

Four Great Inventions

Four Holy Beasts

Four Paragons of the Early Tang

Four Pillars of Destiny

Four Masters of the Ming dynasty

Four Masters of the Yuan dynasty

Four Olds

Four Pests campaign

Four sea delicacies

Four Symbols

Four Treasures of the Study

Four Wangs

Emigration

Ethnic groups

Eunuchs

Internal migration

Languages

Life expectancy

Statistics

Population history "Post-80s" "Post-90s"

"Post-80s"

"Post-90s"

Urbanization

Buddhism Chinese Buddhism Tibetan Buddhism

Chinese Buddhism

Tibetan Buddhism

Confucianism

Folk religion

Christianity Catholic Church in China Protestantism

Catholic Church in China

Protestantism

Freedom of religion

History of religion

Irreligion

Taoism

Anthem

Emblem

Outline

Category

Portal

Afghanistan

Armenia

Azerbaijan

Bahrain

Bangladesh

Bhutan

Brunei

Burma (Myanmar)

Cambodia

Cyprus

East Timor (Timor-Leste)

Georgia

Indonesia

Israel

Jordan

Kazakhstan

North Korea

South Korea

Kuwait

Kyrgyzstan

Lebanon

Malaysia

Maldives

Mongolia

Pakistan

Philippines

Russia

Saudi Arabia

Singapore

Sri Lanka

Tajikistan

Thailand

Turkey

Turkmenistan

United Arab Emirates

Uzbekistan

Vietnam

Abkhazia

Northern Cyprus

Palestine

South Ossetia

Taiwan

British Indian Ocean Territory

Christmas Island

Cocos (Keeling) Islands

Hong Kong

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

United States

France

BnF data

Latvia

Israel

Yale LUX

# Anhui cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Anhui cuisine, alternatively referred to as Hui cuisine, is one of the Eight Culinary Traditions of Chinese cuisine. It is derived from the native cooking styles of the Huangshan region in southern Anhui Province.

Methods and ingredients

Anhui cuisine is known for its use of wild herbs, from both the land and the sea, and simple methods of preparation. Braising and stewing are common cooking techniques. Frying and stir frying are used much less frequently in Anhui cuisine than in other Chinese culinary traditions. Anhui cuisine consists of three styles: the Yangtze River region, Huai River region, and southern Anhui region. Anhui has ample uncultivated fields and forests, so the wild herbs used in the region's cuisine are readily available. Anhui cuisine is heavily associated with tofu, with Chinese folklore crediting the creation of tofu to the Han dynasty prince Liu An who hailed from Shou County (dubbed the "hometown of tofu"). According to Chinese legend, stinky tofu was created by Anhuinese scholar Wang Zhihe who sold his product in Beijing to make a living after failing the imperial examination. Anhui is the home of hairy tofu where it is a popular snack.

Notable dishes in Anhui cuisine

See also

List of Chinese dishes

References

^ "Tofu culture in China".

^ "Danwei Canteen Egg Dumplings". YouTube. 19 January 2010. Archived from the original on 2021-12-21.

^ "Cellophane noodles in Anhui province". China Daily. 2014.

History

Politics

Economy

Cities

North China Plain

Huai River

Dabie Mountains

Lake Chaohu

Yangtze Plain

Yangtze River

Jiangnan

Huangshan Mountains

Qiantang River

Mount Huangshan

Mount Jiuhua

Mount Jingting

Mount Qiyun

Mount Tianzhu

Zuiweng Pavilion

Taiji Cave

Zhenfeng Pagoda

Huangmeixi opera

tea Keemun Huangshan Maofeng tea Lu'an Melon Seed tea Taiping houkui

Keemun

Huangshan Maofeng tea

Lu'an Melon Seed tea

Taiping houkui

Cuisine Li Hongzhang hodge-podge soup

Li Hongzhang hodge-podge soup

Central Plains Mandarin

Lower Yangtze Mandarin

Taihu Wu dialects

Xuanzhou Wu dialects

Huizhou Chinese

Gan Chinese

University of Science and Technology of China

Anhui University

Anhui Agricultural University

Anhui Normal University

Category

United States

Israel

Yale LUX

# Cantonese cuisine


Cantonese or Guangdong cuisine, also known as Yue cuisine (Chinese: 廣東菜 or 粵菜), is the cuisine of Cantonese people, associated with the Guangdong province of China, particularly the provincial capital Guangzhou, and the surrounding regions in the Pearl River Delta including Hong Kong and Macau. Strictly speaking, Cantonese cuisine is the cuisine of Guangzhou or of Cantonese speakers, but it often includes the cooking styles of all the speakers of Yue Chinese languages in Guangdong.

The Teochew cuisine and Hakka cuisine of Guangdong are considered their own styles. However, scholars may categorize Guangdong cuisine into three major groups based on the region's dialect: Cantonese, Hakka and Chaozhou cuisines. Neighboring Guangxi's cuisine is also considered separate despite eastern Guangxi being considered culturally Cantonese due to the presence of ethnic Zhuang influences in the rest of the province.

Cantonese cuisine is one of the Eight Great Traditions of Chinese cuisine, and chefs trained in Cantonese cuisine are highly sought after throughout China. Its prominence outside China is due to the large number of Cantonese emigrants; until the late 20th century, most Chinese restaurants in the West served largely Cantonese dishes.

Background

Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Guangzhou (Canton) City, the provincial capital of Guangdong and the centre of Cantonese culture, has long been a trading hub, and many imported foods and ingredients are used in Cantonese cuisine. During the early to middle Qing dynasty period from 1757 to 1842, Guangdong, known as Canton at the time, was the only port where trade was permitted between Chinese and foreign merchants. Cantonese cooks aimed to serve European tastes in restaurants, lending to an ongoing European influence on Cantonese cuisine. Staples of the European nobility diet at the time, particularly turtle soup, were available to British merchants and dignitaries visiting Guangdong. The British taught Cantonese cooks how to make the dish, with the Caribbean sea turtle typically used in Europe replaced by the Chinese softshell turtle. Besides pork, beef and chicken, Cantonese cuisine incorporates almost all edible meats, including offal, chicken feet, duck's tongue, frog legs, snakes and snails.[citation needed] Lamb and goat are less commonly used than in the cuisines of northern or western China. Many cooking methods are used, with steaming and stir-frying favoured due to their convenience and rapidity.

Wok hay is the name given to the unique Cantonese cooking technique, emphasizing the energy, or hay, of the cooking vessel itself. Wok hay emphasizes the multiple flavors at play when cooking, using certain ingredients to balance the harshness of others. Additionally, dishes are typically cooked over a medium heat for a more prolonged period. Guangzhou is known for its year-round warm and humid climate; wok hay helps prevent chefs from working in an environment where they can easily overheat from the sweltering kitchen temperatures. This concept lends to a sense of superiority among Cantonese cooks with respect to stir-fry technique. Other techniques include shallow frying, double steaming, braising and deep frying. Compared to other Chinese regional cuisines, the flavours of most traditional Cantonese dishes should be well-balanced and not greasy. Spices should be used in modest amounts to avoid overwhelming the flavours of the primary ingredients, which in turn should be at the peak of their freshness and quality. There is no widespread use of fresh herbs in Cantonese cooking, in contrast with their liberal use in other cuisines such as Sichuanese, Vietnamese, Lao, Thai and European. Garlic chives and coriander leaves are notable exceptions, although the former are often used as a vegetable and the latter are typically used as mere garnish in most dishes.

Guangzhou’s notability in its restaurants, teahouses, and snack shops was targeted by the reforms of the CCP, as top party leaders made efforts to transform Guangzhou from a center of culinary arts into an industrial powerhouse. Well-established culinary institutions were targeted as traditionalist remnants, replaced with communal-style eating halls. “Massification” became key to the reforming of Guangzhou’s culinary scene, with many delicacies such as sharkfin soup, bird's nest soup, and sea cucumber, which were often imported, ushered out of restaurants in favor of less expensive ingredients. Frugality was emphasized as a revolutionary ideal, with restaurants previously reserved for the wealthy elites now serving the working class, who had felt that these “Old Society” delicacies were withheld from them.

Sauces and condiments

In Cantonese cuisine, ingredients such as sugar, salt, soy sauce, rice wine, corn starch, vinegar, scallion and sesame oil suffice to enhance flavour, although garlic is heavily used in some dishes, especially those in which internal organs, such as entrails, may emit unpleasant odours. Ginger, chili peppers, five-spice powder, powdered black pepper, star anise and a few other spices are also used, but often sparingly.

Char siu is often marinated with plum sauce and honey for sweet flavour.

Oysters steamed in two ways: with ginger and garlic, and in black bean sauce

Dried and preserved ingredients

Although Cantonese cooks pay much attention to the freshness of their primary ingredients, Cantonese cuisine also uses a long list of preserved food items to add flavour to a dish. This may be influenced by Hakka cuisine, since the Hakkas were once a dominant group occupying imperial Hong Kong and other southern territories.

Some items gain very intense flavours during the drying/preservation/oxidation process and some foods are preserved to increase their shelf life. Some chefs combine both dried and fresh varieties of the same items in a dish. Dried items are usually soaked in water to rehydrate before cooking. These ingredients are generally not served a la carte, but rather with vegetables or other Cantonese dishes.

Traditional dishes

A number of dishes have been part of Cantonese cuisine since the earliest territorial establishments of Guangdong. While many of these are on the menus of typical Cantonese restaurants, some simpler ones are more commonly found in Cantonese homes. Home-made Cantonese dishes are usually served with plain white rice.

Deep-fried dishes

There are a small number of deep-fried dishes in Cantonese cuisine, which can often be found as street food. They have been extensively documented in colonial Hong Kong records of the 19th and 20th centuries. A few are synonymous with Cantonese breakfast and lunch, even though these are also part of other cuisines.

Old fire soup, or lou fo tong (老火汤; 老火湯; lǎohuǒ tāng; lou5 fo2 tong; 'old fire-cooked soup'), is a clear broth prepared by simmering meat and other ingredients over a low heat for several hours. Chinese herbs are often used as ingredients. There are basically two ways to make old fire soup – put ingredients and water in the pot and heat it directly on fire, which is called bou tong (煲汤; 煲湯; bāo tāng; bou1 tong1); or put the ingredients in a small stew pot, and put it in a bigger pot filled with water, then heat the bigger pot on fire directly, which is called dun tong (燉汤; 燉湯; dùn tāng; dan6 tong1). The latter way can keep the most original taste of the soup.

Soup chain stores or delivery outlets in cities with significant Cantonese populations, such as Hong Kong, serve this dish due to the long preparation time required of slow-simmered soup.

Seafood

Due to Guangdong's location along the South China Sea coast, fresh seafood is prominent in Cantonese cuisine, and many Cantonese restaurants keep aquariums or seafood tanks on the premises. In Cantonese cuisine, as in cuisines from other parts of Asia, if seafood has a repugnant odour, strong spices and marinating juices are added; the freshest seafood is odourless and, in Cantonese culinary arts, is best cooked by steaming. For instance, in some recipes, only a small amount of soy sauce, ginger and spring onion is added to steamed fish. In Cantonese cuisine, the light seasoning is used only to bring out the natural sweetness of the seafood. As a rule of thumb, the spiciness of a dish is usually negatively correlated to the freshness of the ingredients.

Cheese lobster with e-fu noodles

Typical ingredients for Cantonese-style hotpot are razor shell (蟶子), crab (蟹), prawn (蝦), chicken sausage (雞肉腸仔) and dace fishball (魚旦).

Noodle dishes

Noodles are served either in soup broth or fried. These are available as home-cooked meals, on dim sum side menus, or as street food at dai pai dongs, where they can be served with a variety of toppings such as fish balls, beef balls, or fish slices.

Siu mei

Siu mei (烧味; 燒味; shāo wèi; siu1 mei6) is essentially the Chinese rotisserie style of cooking. Unlike most other Cantonese dishes, siu mei solely consists of meat, with no vegetables.

All Cantonese-style cooked meats, including siu mei, lou mei and preserved meat can be classified as siu laap (烧腊; 燒臘; shāo là; siu1 laap6).

Lou mei

Lou mei (卤味; 滷味; lǔ wèi; lou5 mei6) is the name given to dishes made from internal organs, entrails and other left-over parts of animals. It is widely available in southern Chinese regions.

Meat and rice plates

A portion of meat, such as char siu, served on a bed of steamed white rice. A typical variant consists of half-and-half portions of two types of siu mei and lou mei (or sometimes more than two). A steamed vegetable (such as choy sum) is frequently, but not always included.

Little pot rice

Little pot rice (煲仔饭; 煲仔飯; bāozǎifàn; bou1 zai2 faan6) are dishes cooked and served in a flat-bottomed pot (as opposed to a round-bottomed wok). Usually this is a saucepan or braising pan (see clay pot cooking). Such dishes are cooked by covering and steaming, making the rice and ingredients very hot and soft. Usually the ingredients are layered on top of the rice with little or no mixing in between. Many standard combinations exist.

Banquet and dinner dishes

A number of dishes are traditionally served in Cantonese restaurants only at dinner time. Said banquets were typically served in the capital's famous tea houses. Guangzhou’s tea houses have historically served as meeting places for the public, where political movements could foment and lead to action. The main draw of these tea houses was to enjoy dim sum. While eating dim sum in tea houses grew in popularity during the nineteenth century, the different snacks and small bites that were enjoyed grew Guangzhou staples to encompassing culinary traditions from China’s numerous provinces. After the Qing’s defeat in the first Opium War, culinary influences outside of China found their way into the dim sum served at tea houses, with ingredients such as Worcestershire sauce and Ketchup becoming staple ingredients. Dim sum restaurants stop serving bamboo-basket dishes after the yum cha period (equivalent to afternoon tea) and begin offering an entirely different menu in the evening. Some dishes are standard while others are regional. Some are customised for special purposes such as Chinese marriages or banquets. Salt and pepper dishes are one of the few spicy dishes.

Dessert

After the evening meal, most Cantonese restaurants offer tong sui (糖水; táng shuǐ; tong4 seoi2; 'sugar water'), a sweet soup. Many varieties of tong sui are also found in other Chinese cuisines. Some desserts are traditional, while others are recent innovations. The more expensive restaurants usually offer their specialty desserts. Sugar water is the general name of dessert in Guangdong province. It is cooked by adding water and sugar to some other cooking ingredients.

Delicacies

Certain Cantonese delicacies consist of parts taken from rare or endangered animals, which raises controversy[according to whom?] over animal rights and environmental issues. This is often[according to whom?] due to alleged health benefits of certain animal products. For example, the continued spreading of the idea that shark cartilage can cure cancer has led to decreased shark populations even though scientific research has found no evidence to support the credibility of shark cartilage as a cancer cure. Consumption of shark fin soup dates back to the Song dynasty, with the dish ultimately becoming ingrained into Cantonese food culture and Chinese food culture as a whole in the royal banquets of the Ming. Conservation efforts by the Chinese government and various NGOs have been historically difficult to implement. It can be difficult for fishermen who rely on the sale of shark fins to adopt alternative occupations, in addition to corruption at the local level impeding attempts at dismantling the shark fin trade.

See also

Cantonese culture

Chinese food therapy

Dim sum

Hong Kong cuisine

List of Chinese dishes

Macanese cuisine

Restaurant industry in Guangzhou

References

^ Hsiung, Deh-Ta. Simonds, Nina. Lowe, Jason. [2005] (2005). The food of China: a journey for food lovers. Bay Books. ISBN 978-0-681-02584-4. p17.

^ Klein, Jakob A. (October 2007). "Redefining Cantonese cuisine in post-Mao Guangzhou". Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies. 70 (3): 511–537. doi:10.1017/S0041977X07000821. ISSN 0041-977X. S2CID 146794802.

^ Civitello, Linda (23 March 2011). Cuisine and Culture: A History of Food and People. Wiley. p. 281. ISBN 9781118098752.

^ Ching, May-bo (2016). "The Flow of Turtle Soup from the Caribbean via Europe to Canton, and Its Modern American Fate". Gastronomica. 16 (1): 79–89. ISSN 1529-3262.

^ young, grace (1 August 2004). "Wok Hay: The Breath of a Wok". Gastronomica. 4 (3): 26–30. doi:10.1525/gfc.2004.4.3.26. ISSN 1529-3262.

^ Editorial Team of Hong Kong Economic Journal (May 2021). "舌尖上的中國：八大菜系由來 [The Taste of China: The Origin of Eight Great Traditions]". Hong Kong Economic Journal.

^ Klein, Jakob A. (2007). "Redefining Cantonese Cuisine in Post-Mao Guangzhou". Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London. 70 (3): 511–537. ISSN 0041-977X.

^ L, Ellen. "Shunde Style Sashimi 順德魚生". Retrieved 6 December 2022.

^ Wordie, Jason (2002). Streets: Exploring Hong Kong Island. Hong Kong: Hong Kong University Press. ISBN 962-209-563-1.

^ Phillips, Carolyn (2017). "Modern Chinese History as Reflected in a Teahouse Mirror". Gastronomica. 17 (1): 56–65. ISSN 1529-3262.

^ Fabinyi, Michael (2012). "Historical, cultural and social perspectives on luxury seafood consumption in China". Environmental Conservation. 39 (1): 83–92. ISSN 0376-8929.

^ Wolfe, Marilyn J.; Wolf, Jeffrey C.; Cheng, Keith C.; Ostrander, Gary K. (1 December 2004). "Shark Cartilage, Cancer and the Growing Threat of Pseudoscience". Cancer Research. 64 (23): 8485–8491. doi:10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-04-2260. PMID 15574750. Archived from the original on 19 July 2012. Retrieved 11 June 2012 – via cancerres.aacrjournals.org.

^ "Women's Networking Center Offers Interactive Sessions, One-On-One Mentoring". Default Digital Object Group. 24 April 2019. Retrieved 24 October 2025.

Further reading

Eight Immortal Flavors: Secrets of Cantonese Cookery from San Francisco's Chinatown, Johnny Kan and Charles L. Leong. Berkeley, California: Howell-North Books, 1963

External links

恭和堂繼承人董蕙芬訛稱單親媽媽情騙

恭和堂太子女董蕙芬大麻販毒或假宣傳

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

Bao yu

Bird's nest soup

Buddha's delight

Cantonese seafood soup

Chinese steamed eggs

Congee

Crispy fried chicken

Dragon tiger phoenix

Egg foo young

Eight treasure duck

Eight treasure rice

Hot pot

Lemon chicken

Pork knuckles and ginger stew

Seafood birdsnest

Shark fin soup

Snake bite chicken

Soy sauce chicken

Steam minced pork

Subgum

Suckling pig

Sweet and sour pork

White boiled shrimp

White cut chicken

Wonton noodles

Yangzhou fried rice

Almond tofu

Beef tripe

Cha siu bao

Chicken feet

Coconut bar

Har gow

Jian dui

Jiaozi

Lo mai gai

Lotus seed bun

Nian gao

Ox-tongue pastry

Rice noodle roll

Shumai

Spring roll

Steamed meatball

Swiss wing

Taro cake

Taro dumpling

Tendon

Tofu skin roll

Turnip cake

Water chestnut cake

Yau gok

Youtiao

Zhaliang

Char siu

Chinese sausage

Lou mei

Orange cuttlefish

Roast goose

Siu mei

Siu yuk

White cut chicken

Almond biscuit

Biscuit roll

Deuk Deuk Tong

Douhua

Ginger milk curd

Lo mai chi

Malay sponge cake

Mooncake

Red bean cake

Red bean soup

Sausage bun

Snow skin mooncake

Tang bu shuai

Tong sui

White sugar sponge cake

Fermented bean curd

Five-spice powder

XO sauce

Beef ball

Black bean paste

Chenpi

Conpoy

Fermented black beans

Fish ball

Fishcake

Frog legs

Garland chrysanthemum

Kai-lan

Mantis shrimp

Ong choy

Pig blood curd

Pig's ear

Rapeseed

Saang mein

Sea cucumbers

Shahe fen

Shrimp roe noodles

Spare ribs

Suan cai

Tofu skin

Wonton

Yi mein

Youmian

Zha cai

Chinese herb tea

Dried shredded squid

Lou fo tong

Cantonese restaurant

Beijing cuisine

Shanghai cuisine

Hong Kong cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

History

Politics

Economy

Police

Cities

Metropolitan areas Chaoshan Pearl River Delta

Chaoshan

Pearl River Delta

Sanyi (Sam Yup)

Sze Yup (Siyi)

Leizhou Peninsula

Regions Pearl River Delta Yuexi Yuebei Yuedong

Pearl River Delta

Yuebei

Yuedong

Pearl River

East River

West River

Nanling Mountains

Pratas Island and the Vereker Banks (claimed)

Shamian Island

Guangzhou Education

Shenzhen Education

Lingnan culture

Cantonese people

Varieties of Chinese Yue Chinese Hailufeng Teochew Hakka

Yue Chinese

Hailufeng

Teochew

Lingnan architecture

Tong lau

Lingnan garden

Cantonese embroidery

Teochew woodcarving

Lingnan penjing

Canton porcelain

Lingnan School

Cantonese opera

Naamyam

Guangdong music

Gou Wu

Cantonese poetry

Cantonese nationalism

Hung Ga

Wing Chun

Lingnan Confucianism

Flowermarket

Cantonese lion dance

Wong Tai Sin

Hung Shing

Cantonese merchants

Red cotton flower

Cantonese folktales

The Legend of Five Goats

Villain hitting

Hakka people

Teochew people

Zhuang people

Chu Hua Yuan

Cantonese cuisine

Beef chow fun

Chow mein

Char siu

Roasted suckling pig

Bird's nest soup

Seafood birdsnest

Shumai

Cantonese fried rice

Dim sum Yum cha

Yum cha

Leung cha

Tong sui

Hakka cuisine

Teochew cuisine

Category

Commons

History

Politics

Economy

Cities

Nanling Mountains

Gulf of Tonkin

Kitten Mountain

Guangxi University

Guangxi Normal University

Guangxi Medical University

Cantonese culture

Cantonese people

Cantonese nationalism

Zhuang customs and culture

Zhuang people

Varieties of Chinese Yue Chinese Southwestern Mandarin Pinghua

Yue Chinese

Southwestern Mandarin

Pinghua

Zhuang languages

Mienic languages

Cantonese cuisine

Guangxi cuisine

Luosifen

Shumai

Tuotuorou

Longsheng Rice Terraces

Li River

Jingjiang Princes' Palace

Yangshuo County

Ban Gioc–Detian Falls

Weizhou Island

Category

Commons

Outline

Index of articles

Prehistoric

Imperial China Bao'an County and Xin'an County

Bao'an County and Xin'an County

British colony

1800s–1930s WWI

Battle of Hong Kong

Japanese occupation

Liberation of Hong Kong

Handover of Hong Kong

Administrative divisions

Air pollution

Beaches

Buildings and structures

Channels

Cities and towns

Country parks and conservation

Ecology

Land reclamation

Harbours

Islands and peninsulas

Marine parks

Mountains and peaks

Public parks and gardens

Reservoirs

Rivers

Villages

National anthem

Basic Law

Chief Executive

Districts

Elections

Emblem

Foreign relations

Government

Independence

Judiciary

Legal system

Legislative Council

LGBT rights

Military

One country, two systems

Political parties

Protests

Sino-British Joint Declaration

Special administrative regions of China

Education

Fire services

Food and Health Bureau

Healthcare

Police

Companies

Dollar (currency)

Employment

Hawkers

Postal codes

Stock Exchange

Communications Telephone numbers

Telephone numbers

The Hongs

Tourism

Airlines

Airport

Cycling

Ferries

List of roads

Prostitution

Sex trafficking

Architecture

Cinema

Comics

Cheung Chau Bun Festival

Cuisine

Gambling

Graffiti

Heritage conservation

Hong Kong orchid

Honours system

Hong Kong nationalism

Languages

Lion Rock Spirit

Literature

McDull

Museums

Ngai jong

People Demographics Women Youth

Demographics

Public holidays

Religion

Shopping

Television

Visual art

Anglosphere

CJKV Sinosphere

Sinosphere

Historic structures

Portuguese Macau

Governors

Postal history

Military of Portuguese Macau

Handover

Macau Peninsula

Coloane

UM Hengqin

Geocode

Municipalities

Basic Law

Commission Against Corruption

Elections

Foreign relations

Gaming law

Independence

Legal system

Legislative Council

Military

Municipal Council

Municipality of Ilhas

One country, two systems

Political parties

Sino-Portuguese Joint Declaration

Administration and Justice

Economy and Finance

Security

Social Affairs and Culture

Transport and Public Works

Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement (CEPA)

Companies

Hengqin

Immigration

Monetary Authority

Pataca (currency)

Telecommunications

Canidrome

Gambling

Individual Visit Scheme

Macau Tower

Air Airlines Air Macau Airport

Airlines Air Macau

Air Macau

Airport

Ferry Pier

Mass transit system

Road List of Roads Hong Kong–Zhuhai–Macau Bridge Reolian Transmac TCM

List of Roads

Hong Kong–Zhuhai–Macau Bridge

Reolian

Transmac

Prostitution

Sex trafficking

Architecture

Cuisine Cantonese

Cantonese

Education universities

universities

Events and festivals

Films set in Macau

Honours system

Languages Cantonese Macanese Portuguese

Cantonese

Macanese

Portuguese

Literature José dos Santos Ferreira Luís de Camões

José dos Santos Ferreira

Luís de Camões

Music Cantopop Opera

Cantopop

Names of Macau

People Demographics Women Miss Macau

Demographics

Women Miss Macau

Miss Macau

Religion

Science and Culture Centre

Scouting

Sport Grand Prix Jockey Club Rugby union

Grand Prix

Jockey Club

Rugby union

Emblem

United States

Israel

Yale LUX

# Fujian cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Fujian cuisine or Fujianese cuisine, also known as Min cuisine, is one of the native Chinese cuisines derived from the cooking style of China's Fujian Province, most notably from the provincial capital, Fuzhou. "Fujian cuisine" in this article refers to the cuisines of Min Chinese-speaking people within Fujian. Other cuisines in Fujian include Putian cuisine, Hokkien cuisine, Hakka cuisine, and the ethnic minority cuisines of the She and Tanka people. Fujian cuisine is known to be light but flavourful, soft, and tender, with particular emphasis on umami taste, known in Chinese cooking as xianwei (鲜味; 鮮味; xiān wèi; sian bī), as well as retaining the original flavour of the main ingredients instead of masking them.

Many diverse seafood and woodland ingredients are used, including a variety of local fish, shellfish and turtles, or indigenous edible mushrooms and bamboo shoots, provided by the coastal and mountainous regions of Fujian. The most commonly employed cooking techniques in the region's cuisine include braising, stewing, steaming and boiling.

As the people of Fujian often travel to and from the sea, their food customs have gradually formed a unique cuisine with creative characteristics. Fujian cuisine is famous for preparing mountain and seafood based on good color, aroma, and shape, especially "fragrance" and "taste." Its fresh, mellow, meaty, non-greasy style characteristics and the features of a wide range of soups take a unique place in the field of Chinese cuisine.

Particular attention is paid on the finesse of knife skills and cooking technique of the chefs, which is used to enhance the flavour, aroma and texture of seafood and other foods. Strong emphasis is put on the making and utilising of broth and soups. There are sayings in the region's cuisine: "One broth can be changed into numerous (ten) forms" (一汤十变; 一湯十變; yī tāng shí biàn; chit thong sip piàn) and "It is unacceptable for a meal to not have soup" (不汤不行; 不湯不行; bù tāng bù xíng; put thong put hêng).

Fermented fish sauce, known locally as "shrimp oil" (虾油; 蝦油; xiā yóu; hâ iû), is also commonly used in the cuisine, along with oyster, crab and shrimp. Peanuts (utilised for both savoury dishes and desserts) are also prevalent, and can be boiled, fried, roasted, crushed, ground or turned into a paste. Peanuts can be used as a garnish, feature in soups and be added to braised or stir-fried dishes.

Fujian cuisine has had a profound impact on Taiwanese cuisine and on the overseas Chinese cuisines found in Japan, North America, and Southeast Asia (particularly the Malay Archipelago), as the majority of Taiwanese and Southeast Asian Chinese people have ancestral roots in Minnan region of Fujian province.

Styles

Fujian cuisine consists of several styles:

Fuzhou: The taste is lighter compared to other styles, often with an equally mixed taste of sweet and sour. Fuzhou is famous for its soups, and its use of fermented fish sauce and red yeast rice.

Putian or Henghwa: From the coastal town of Putian, best known for seafood dishes including lor mee and Duotuo clams.

Southern Fujian: The taste is stronger than other Fujianese cuisines, showing obvious influence from Southeast Asian dishes. Use of sugar and spices (like shacha sauce and five-spice powder) is more common. Various kinds of slow-cooked soup (not quite similar to the Cantonese tradition) are found. Many dishes come with dipping sauces.

Western Fujian: There are often slight spicy tastes from mustard and pepper and the cooking methods are often steaming, frying and stir-frying. The food is saltier and oilier compared to other parts of Fujian, usually focusing on meat rather than seafood.

Penang and Singapore: This type of Fujian cuisine is thick and spicy, due to the influence from Indian and Malaysian cuisine in Singapore and parts of Malaysia. Curry powder and chilies are often used in this style. The most common method of cooking is stir-frying. Notable dishes include char kway teow, bah kut teh, and tau hu goreng. Noodles are more common in this form of Fujian cuisine.

Seasonings

Unique seasonings from Fujian include fish sauce, shrimp paste, sugar, shacha sauce and preserved apricot. Wine lees from the production of rice wine is also commonly used in all aspects of the region's cuisine. Red yeast rice (红麴/红糟酱; 紅麴/紅糟醬; hóngqū/hóngzāojiàng; ângkhak/ângchauchiòng) is also commonly used in Fujian cuisine, imparting a rosy-red hue to the foods, pleasant aroma, and slightly sweet taste.

Fujian is also well known for its "drunken" (wine marinated) dishes and is famous for the quality of the soup stocks and bases used to flavour their dishes, soups and stews.

Notable dishes

One of the most famous dishes in Fujian cuisine is "Buddha Jumps Over the Wall", a complex dish making use of many ingredients, including shark's fin, sea cucumber, abalone and Shaoxing wine.

Fujian is also notable for yanpi (燕皮; yàn pí; ian phî), literally "swallow skin," a thin wrapper made with large proportions of lean minced pork. This wrapper has a unique texture due to the incorporation of meat and has a "bite" similar to things made with surimi. Yanpi is used to make rouyan (肉燕; ròu yàn; he̍k ian), a type of wonton.

There are many eating places around the province that sell these specialties for two yuan, and which are thus known as "two-yuan eateries". In Xiamen, a local specialty is worm jelly (土笋冻; 土笋凍; tǔ sǔn dòng), an aspic made from a species of marine peanut worm.

See also

Shaxian delicacies

List of Chinese dishes

Chinatown, Flushing

Brooklyn's Fuzhou Town (福州埠)

Manhattan's Little Fuzhou (小福州)

References

^ a b 中国烹饪协会 (China Cuisine Association). 中国八大菜系:闽菜 (China's Eight Great Schools of Cuisines : Min). 福建大酒家: 中国职工音像出版社. ISRC： CN-A47-99-302-00/V.G4

^ a b c d 徐, 文苑 (2005), 中国饮食文化概论, 清华大学出版社, pp. 79–80

^ Chushixiu [permanent dead link]

^ a b Grigson, Jane (January 1985), World Atlas of Food, Bookthrift Company, ISBN 978-0-671-07211-7

^ Hu, Shiu-ying (2005), Food plants of China, Chinese University Press

^ a b "Fujian Cuisine. Archived July 31, 2013, at the Wayback Machine Beautyfujian.com Archived 2011-07-10 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed June 2011.

Buddha Jumps Over the Wall

Lychee pork

Qi Jiguang bread

Ding bian hu

Hujiao bing

Fujian red wine chicken

Shaxian delicacies

Gua bao

Fish ball

Bak kut teh

Ban mian

Lor mee

Ngo hiang

Oyster omelette

Popiah

Shacha sauce

Fuzhou cuisine

Putian cuisine

Cuisine of Hong Kong

Cuisine of Macao

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Fuzhou (PRC capital)

Jincheng (ROC capital)

History

Politics

Economy

Cities

Jiulong River

Min River

Wuyi Mountains

East China Sea

South China Sea

Taiwan Strait

Haitan Island

Jin River

Huaqiao University

Xiamen University

Jimei University

Xiamen University of Technology

Longyan University

Putian University

Min Chinese language

Hokkien culture

Hoklo people

Written Hokkien

Hokkien architecture

Hokkien earthen buildings

Dehua porcelain

Jian ware

Shoushan stone carvings

Glove puppetry

Koa-á books

Tale of the Lychee Mirror

Gongfu tea

Fujian White Crane

Dog Kung Fu

Poh Seng Tai Tay

Hui'an maidens

Narcissus

Turtle-back tombs

Fuzhou people

Min opera

Lady Linshui

Qi Lin Bayin

Putian people

Puxian opera

Hakka people

Hakka architecture

Fujian cuisine

Buddha jumps over the wall

Kompyang

Lychee pork

Rouyan

Hujiao bing

Fujian red wine chicken

Ding bian hu

Shaxian delicacies

Taro purée

Xian mian

Hokkien mee

Bak kut teh

Banmian

Oolong tea

Sanfang Qixiang

Fuzhou Confucian Temple

Fujian Museum

Jinshan Temple

Xichan Temple

Mount Taimu

St. Dominic's Cathedral

St. John's Church

Anping Bridge

Fujian Tulou

Guanghua Temple

Nanshan Temple

Matsu pilgrimage

Kaiyuan Temple

South Putuo Temple

Zhushan Power Plant

Juguang Tower

Category

Commons

United States

Israel

Yale LUX

# Hunan cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Hunan cuisine, also known as Xiang cuisine, consists of the cuisines of the Xiang River region, Dongting Lake and western Hunan Province in China. It is one of the Eight Great Traditions of Chinese cuisine and is well known for its hot and spicy flavours, fresh aroma and deep colours. Despite this, only about 20% of the cuisine uses capsicum to produce a strong spicy taste. Common cooking techniques include stewing, frying, pot-roasting, braising and smoking. Due to the high agricultural output of the region, many different ingredients are used in Hunan dishes.

History

The history of the cooking skills employed in Hunan cuisine dates back to the 17th century. The first mention of chili peppers in local gazettes in the province date to 1684, the 21st year of the Kangxi Emperor. During the course of its history, Hunan cuisine assimilated a variety of local forms, eventually evolving into its own style. Some well-known dishes include fried chicken with Sichuan spicy sauce (麻辣鸡丁; 麻辣雞丁; málà jīdīng) and smoked pork with dried long green beans (干豆角蒸腊肉; 乾豆角蒸臘肉; gāndòujiǎo zhēng làròu).

Hunan cuisine consists of three primary styles:

Xiang River style: Originating from Changsha, Xiangtan and Hengyang. The dishes are quite oily with a attractive colour, and the dishes are spicy, fresh, and have a strong aroma. Dishes include stir-fry chicken with chili, braised meat with black bean sauce and Changsha stinky tofu.

Dongting Lake style: Originating from Yueyang, Yiyang and Changde. This style is also oily but is also starchy, accompanied with spiciness and saltiness. Stewing is more common in this form of Hunan cuisine, and fish is commonly used too. Notable dishes include Dongting gold tortoise and lotus seedpods with crystal sugar.

Western Hunan style: Originating from Zhangjiajie, Jishou and Huaihua. Preserved meats and pickled vegetables are more commonly used. The taste is influenced by the ethnic minorities in the region, which results in a sour, spicy, and salty taste. Notable dishes include braised mushrooms and Xiangxi sour meat.

Features

With its liberal use of chili peppers, shallots and garlic, Hunan cuisine is known for being gan la (干辣; gān là; 'dry and spicy') or purely hot, as opposed to Sichuan cuisine, to which it is often compared. Sichuan cuisine uses its distinctive ma la (麻辣; má là; 'spicy and numbing') seasoning and other complex flavour combinations, frequently employs Sichuan pepper along with chilies which are often dried. It also utilises more dried or preserved ingredients and condiments. Hunan cuisine, on the other hand, is often spicier by pure chili content and contains a larger variety of fresh ingredients. Both Hunan and Sichuan cuisine are perhaps significantly oilier than the other cuisines in China, but Sichuan dishes are generally oilier than Hunan dishes. Another characteristic distinguishing Hunan cuisine from Sichuan cuisine is that Hunan cuisine uses smoked and cured goods in its dishes much more frequently.

Hunan cuisine's menu changes with the seasons. In a hot and humid summer, a meal will usually start with cold dishes or a platter holding a selection of cold meats with chilies for opening the pores and keeping cool in the summer. In winter, a popular choice is hot pot, thought to heat the blood in the cold months. A special hot pot called yuanyang huoguo (鸳鸯火锅; 鴛鴦火鍋; yuānyāng hǔogūo; 'Mandarin ducks hot pot') is notable for splitting the pot into a spicy and a mild side. One of the classic dishes in Hunan cuisine served in restaurants and at home is farmer pepper fried pork. It is made with several common ingredients: pork belly, green pepper, fermented black beans and other spices.

List of notable dishes

A discussion of Hunan cuisine overall may list a number of piquant dishes, usually but not always very hot and spicy.

See also

List of Chinese dishes

References

^ a b c d "A Song of Spice and Fire: The Real Deal with Hunan Cuisine".

^ 王, 墨泉 (March 2018). 湘菜本色. 湖南人民出版社. ISBN 978-7-5438-9232-3.

^ "Why Revolutionaries Love Spicy Food". 14 April 2016. Archived from the original on 23 September 2020. Retrieved 21 May 2019.

^ a b "Hunan Government Website International-enghunan.gov.cn Hunan Cuisine". www.enghunan.gov.cn. Retrieved 2024-03-13.

^ a b c B, Ivan (2019-07-28). "China Spice Wars: Sichuan Cuisine vs. Hunan Cuisine". Country and a Half. Retrieved 2024-03-13.

^ "Hunan cuisine | China & Asia Cultural Travel". 2016-12-09. Retrieved 2024-03-13.

^ Guo, Wei (2021-02-26). "Hunan Pork Stir-fry (湖南小炒肉)". Red House Spice. Retrieved 2024-03-13.

^ "一城一味丨长沙：最令人神魂颠倒的，是口味虾的那口香辣 - 寻味湖湘 - 新湖南". www.hunantoday.cn. Retrieved 2021-08-31.

^ Jiang, Yan (Apr 27, 2016). "Top 10 Hunan dishes you have to taste". Discover.china.org.cn. Archived from the original on 2016-08-14.

Dong'an chicken

Red braised pork belly

Stinky tofu

Yongfeng chili sauce

Hong Kong cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

History

Politics

Economy

Cities Changzhutan

Changzhutan

Yangtze River

Xiang River

Zi River

Yuanjiang River

Lishui River

Wuling Mountains

Xuefeng Mountains

Nanling Mountains

Luoxiao Mountains

Lake Dongting

Hunan University

Central South University

National University of Defense Technology

Hunan Normal University

Xiangtan University

Culture of Hunan

Hunanese people

Xiang dialect

Xiangnan Tuhua

Nü shu writing system

Xiang embroidery

Huaguxi

Yuelu Academy

Xiang Army

Miao people

Tujia people

Hunan TV

Hunan cuisine

Stinky tofu

Dong'an chicken

Hongshao rou

Lei cha

Zhangjiajie Wulingyuan Tianmen Mountain Avatar Hallelujah Mountain

Wulingyuan

Tianmen Mountain

Avatar Hallelujah Mountain

Fenghuang County

Mount Heng

Mount Langshan

Yueyang Tower

Changsha Yuelu Academy Hunan Museum

Yuelu Academy

Hunan Museum

Category

Commons

United States

Israel

Yale LUX

# Jiangsu cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Jiangsu cuisine (simplified Chinese: 江苏菜; traditional Chinese: 江蘇菜; pinyin: Jiāngsū cài), also known as Su cuisine (simplified Chinese: 苏菜; traditional Chinese: 蘇菜; pinyin: Sū cài), is one of the Eight Culinary Traditions of Chinese cuisine. It is derived from the native cooking styles of Jiangsu Province. In general, Jiangsu cuisine's texture is characterized as soft, but not to the point of mushy or falling apart. In addition, Jiangsu cuisine also focuses on heating temperature. For example, the meat tastes quite soft but would not separate from the bone when picked up. As the style of Jiangsu cuisine is typically practised near the sea, fish is a very common ingredient in cooking. Other characteristics include the strict selection of ingredients according to the seasons, with emphasis on the matching color and shape of each dish and using soup to improve flavor. The municipality of Shanghai was formerly a part of Jiangsu thus the great deal of similarity between the two, and Shanghai cuisine is sometimes classified as a part of Jiangsu cuisine.

Regional variations

Jiangsu cuisine is sometimes simply called Su cuisine, and one of its major styles is Huaiyang cuisine. Although Huaiyang cuisine is one of several sub-regional styles within Jiangsu cuisine, it is widely seen in Chinese culinary circles as the most popular and prestigious style of Jiangsu cuisine – to a point where it is considered to be one of the four most influential regional schools (四大菜系) that dominate the culinary heritage of China, along with Cantonese cuisine, Shandong cuisine and Sichuan cuisine.

Jiangsu cuisine actually consists of several other sub-regional styles, including:

Nanjing style: Its dishes emphasize an even taste and matching colors, with dishes incorporating river fish/shrimp and duck.

Suzhou style: The emphasis is on the selection of ingredients. It has a stronger taste than Nanjing style cuisine as well as a tendency to be sweeter than the other varieties of Jiangsu cuisine.

Wuxi style: Wuxi's proximity to Lake Tai means it is notable for a wide variety of freshwater produce, such as the "Three Whites" – white bait (银鱼; 銀魚; yín yú), white fish (白鱼; 白魚; bái yú) and white shrimp (白虾; 白蝦; bái xiā).

Nantong style: The dishes emphasize a flavor of freshness on the ingredients which cover a variety of seafood, since Nantong is located at the intersection of the local Hao River, the Yangtze River and the Yellow Sea.

Wuxi-style cuisine

In Wuxi, the common cooking method is characterized by the addition of sugar and soy sauce to many savory dishes, often in the form of hongshao (红烧; 紅燒; hóngshāo; 'red braised'). This often results in a fragrant, caramelized flavor. In addition, Wuxi cuisine often has sweeter versions of dishes found in its neighboring regions.

Notable Wuxi dishes include:

Gallery

Shrimp cakes

Tougan shrimp soup

Stir-fried shredded eel with hot oil and ginger

Nanjing salted duck

Fish head casserole

See also

List of Chinese dishes

References

^ Perrolle, Pierre M., ed. (2017-09-08), "Fundamentals of the Chinese Communist Party", Routledge, pp. 1–2, doi:10.4324/9781315177922-1, ISBN 978-1-315-17792-2 {{citation}}: Missing or empty |title= (help)

External links

China Daily on Jiangsu cuisine

To taste Jiangsu is to know China

China.com description

History

Politics

Economy

Cities

Grand Canal of China

Yellow Sea

East China Sea

Xishan Island

Yangtze River

Lake Tai

Hongze Lake

Yangcheng Lake

Huai River

Qixia Mountain

Nanjing University

Jiangsu University

Southeast University

Hohai University

Nanjing Normal University

Nanjing University of Science and Technology

Yangzhou University

Wuyue culture

Shuochang

Cuisine

Suzhou opera

Geyuan (Yangzhou garden)

Purple Mountain

Sun Yat-sen Mausoleum

Ming Xiaoling Mausoleum

Jiming Temple

Nanjing Yangtze River Bridge

Hanshan Temple

Huqiu Tower

Grand Buddha at Ling Shan

Chaotian Palace

Qixia Temple

Tianning Temple Pagoda

Zhouzhuang

Category

Commons

Xuanwu District

Qinhuai District

Jianye District

Gulou District

Pukou District

Luhe District

Qixia District

Yuhuatai District

Jiangning District

Lishui District

Gaochun District

Binhu District

Huishan District

Xishan District

Liangxi District

Xinwu District

Jiangyin City

Yixing City

Yunlong District

Gulou District

Jiawang District

Tongshan District

Quanshan District

Pizhou City

Xinyi City

Suining County

Pei County

Feng County

Zhonglou District

Tianning District

Xinbei District

Wujin District

Jintan District

Liyang City

Gusu District

Huqiu District

Wuzhong District

Xiangcheng District

Wujiang District

Kunshan City

Taicang City

Changshu City

Zhangjiagang City

Chongchuan District

Tongzhou District

Haimen District

Qidong City

Rugao City

Hai'an City

Rudong County

Haizhou District

Lianyun District

Ganyu District

Guanyun County

Donghai County

Guannan County

Qingjiangpu District

Huai'an District

Huaiyin District

Hongze District

Jinhu County

Xuyi County

Lianshui County

Tinghu District

Yandu District

Dafeng District

Dongtai City

Sheyang County

Funing County

Binhai County

Xiangshui County

Jianhu County

Guangling District

Hanjiang District

Jiangdu District

Yizheng City

Gaoyou City

Baoying County

Jingkou District

Runzhou District

Dantu District

Yangzhong City

Danyang City

Jurong City

Hailing District

Gaogang District

Jiangyan District

Jingjiang City

Taixing City

Xinghua City

Sucheng District

Suyu District

Shuyang County

Siyang County

Sihong County

United States

Israel

Yale LUX

This article related to Chinese cuisine is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

# Shandong cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Shandong cuisine (simplified Chinese: 山东菜; traditional Chinese: 山東菜; pinyin: Shāndōngcài), more commonly known in Chinese as Lu cuisine (魯菜), is one of the Eight Culinary Traditions of Chinese cuisine and one of the Four Great Traditions (四大菜系). It is derived from the native cooking style of Shandong Province, a northern coastal province of China.

Features

Shandong cuisine is famous for its wide selection of material and use of different cooking methods. The raw materials are mainly domestic animals and birds, seafood and vegetables. The masterly cooking techniques include bao (爆; quick frying), liu (溜; quick frying with corn flour), pa (扒; stewing), kao (烤; roasting), zhu (煮; boiling), and coating sugar onto fruits with honey as the adhesive.

Styles

Shandong cuisine is mainly divided into three sub-regional styles: Jinan and Jiaodong, and Kongfu.

Jiaodong cuisine (胶东菜; 膠東菜; Jiāodōng cài): refers to the food on the Shandong Peninsula. The location is surrounded by sea on three sides, and therefore has a variety of seafood with an emphasize on light and fresh flavor.

Jinan cuisine (济南菜; 濟南菜; Jìnán cài): made up of dishes from Jinan, Dezhou, Tai'an and the surrounding regions. One of its features is the use of soup.

Confucian cuisine, a.k.a. Kongfu cuisine (孔府菜; Kǒngfǔ cài): primarily distributed in Jining and Qufu. Kongfu cuisine has been preserved due to the special status of the Confucius family. It features a variety of cooking techniques, such as braising, stir-frying, stewing, frying, and grilling. Its preparation is complex, often requiring three to four steps to complete.

Influence

Although less available in overseas Chinese restaurants, Shandong cuisine is considered one of the most influential schools in Chinese cuisine. Modern cuisines in North China (Beijing, Tianjin and the Manchuria) are branches of Shandong cuisine, and meals in most Northern Chinese households are typically prepared using simplified Shandong methods.

During the Spring and Autumn period (770-221 BCE), there were 2 influential states, Qi and Lu. Both states, with mountains and fertile plains, were economically and culturally developed and had abundant aquatic products, grains and sea salt. Some of the earliest known descriptions of Chinese culinary methods come from the states. Yi Ya, a retainer of Duke Huan of Qi, was renowned for his culinary skill. Confucius (who was born in the Lu state) was quoted in the Analects as saying, "One should not indulge overly in fine flour, or in kuai (a dish akin to carpaccio) that is sliced too thinly". About food, he recommended: "Do not consume food which looks spoiled, smells spoiled, is out of season, is improperly butchered, or is not made with its proper seasoning".

The cuisine as it is known today was created during the Yuan dynasty. It gradually spread to northern and northeastern China. In Beijing and Tianjin, it influenced Imperial cuisine. Shandong cuisine is primarily made up of Jiaodong and Jinan dishes.

Ingredients

Although modern transportation has increased the availability of ingredients throughout China, Shandong cuisine remains rooted in tradition. It is noted for its variety of seafood, including scallop, prawn and shrimp, clam, sea cucumber and squid.

Shandong is unique for its use of maize, a local cash crop not widely cultivated in northern China. Unlike the sweet corn of North America, Shandong maize is chewy and starchy, and often has a grassy aroma. It is served as steamed (or boiled) cobs, or the kernels are removed from the cob and lightly fried.

Peanuts

Shandong is noted for its peanuts, which are fragrant and naturally sweet. Large dishes of peanuts (roasted in the shell or shelled and stir-fried with salt) are common at meals, and they are served raw in a number of cold dishes from the region.

Grains

Shandong uses a variety of small grains. Millet, wheat, oats and barley can be found in the local diet, often eaten as congee or milled and cooked into a variety of steamed and fried breads. People in Shandong tend to prefer steamed breads rather than rice as a staple food.

Staple vegetables

Despite its agricultural output, Shandong has not traditionally used the variety of vegetables seen in southern Chinese cooking. Potatoes, tomatoes, cabbages, mushrooms, onions, garlic and eggplant are staple vegetables, with grassy greens, sea grasses and bell peppers also common. The large, sweet cabbages grown in central Shandong are known for their delicate flavour and hardiness; a staple of the winter diet in much of the province, they appear in many dishes.

Vinegar

Shandong's greatest contribution to Chinese cuisine is arguably its vinegar. Hundreds of years of experience and unique local methods have led to the region's prominence in Chinese vinegar production. Unlike the lighter, sharper types of vinegar popular in the south, Shandong vinegar has a complexity which some consider fine enough to stand alone.

Some well-known dishes in Shandong cuisine

Stir-fried pig's kidney (爆炒腰花; bàochǎoyāohuā)

Pig's large intestine (九曲大肠; 九曲大腸; jiǔqū dàcháng; 'nine-coiled large intestine')

Sweet potato with caramelised sugar (拔丝地瓜; 拔絲地瓜; básī dìguā; 'pull-out silk sweet potato')

Deep-fried golden cicada (炸金蝉; 炸金蟬; zhájīnchán

See also

Dezhou braised chicken

List of Chinese dishes

References

^ "Shandong Cuisine". www.chinadaily.com.cn. Retrieved 2016-03-09.

^ "论鲁菜中的济南菜、胶东菜、孔府菜都有哪些区别？". SOHU. 齐鲁晚报. Retrieved 2025-08-29.

^ a b "Shandong Cuisine". Retrieved 8 March 2016.

^ "孔府菜：不止于诗礼满腹-新华网". www.news.cn. Retrieved 2025-08-29.

^ a b "Shandong Cuisine". China.org.cn. Retrieved 2015-02-25.

^ 金門日報 (2017-07-12). "那幢大樓". 金門縣金門日報社 (in Chinese (Taiwan)). Retrieved 2025-08-29.

^ Shandong Cuisine: The Facts, archived from the original on 9 March 2016, retrieved 8 March 2016

^ Hoenig, Alan (2010). Eating Out in China: A Traveler's Resource. Dr. Alan Hoenig. p. 54. ISBN 9780982232422.

Haw flakes

Moo shu pork

Tofu dreg

Braised sea cucumber with scallions [zh]

Braised prawns [zh]

Bazirou pork

Braised intestines in brown sauce

Candied sweet potatoes [zh]

Clay pot pork [zh]

Dezhou braised chicken

Fried pork kidney and chicken gizzard [zh]

Sweet and sour carp [zh]

Eight Immortals Crossing the Sea Gamboling Around the Arhat

Xuzhou cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

History

Politics

Economy

Prefectures

Cities

Mount Tai

Mount Kunyu

Mount Lao

Yellow River and its Delta

Grand Canal

Xiaoqing River

Dongping Lake

Weishan Lake

Laizhou Bay

Bohai Sea

Yellow Sea

North China Plain

North China craton

Shandong Peninsula

Shandong University

Ocean University of China

China University of Petroleum

Shandong Normal University

Lü opera

Qi–Lu culture

Shandong cuisine

Braised Chicken

Haw flakes

Moo shu pork

Sha tang

Braised intestines

Zhongyuan

Jiaoliao (Qingdao · Weihai)

Han (Shandong)

Koreans

List of sites in Jinan

Baotu Spring

Daming Lake

Thousand Buddha Mountain

Dai Temple

Lingyan Temple

Pizhi Pagoda

Great Wall of Qi

Penglai City

Qingdao beach resort city

Temple and Cemetery of Confucius

Shou Qiu

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

United States

Israel

# Sichuan cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Sichuan cuisine or Sichuanese cuisine, alternatively romanized as Szechwan cuisine or Szechuan cuisine (Chinese: 四川ⓘ, Standard Mandarin pronunciation: [sɨ̂.ʈʂʰwán] ⓘ) is a style of Chinese cuisine originating from Sichuan province and the neighboring Chongqing municipality. Chongqing was formerly a part of Sichuan until 1997; thus, there is a great deal of cultural overlap between the two administrative divisions. There are many regional, local variations of Sichuanese cuisine within Sichuan and Chongqing.

The four major substyles of Sichuanese cuisine include Shanghebang, Xiaohebang, Xiahebang, and Buddhist vegetarian style. Shanghebang is represented by Chengdu and Leshan; Xiaohebang by Zigong (which is also known for a genre of dishes called yanbangcai), Yibin, Luzhou, and Neijiang; and Xiahebang by Chongqing and Dazhou.

Sichuanese cuisine is renowned for fiery and bold tastes, particularly the pungency and spiciness resulting from liberal use of garlic and chilis, as well as the unique flavors of Sichuan (Szechuan) pepper. Some examples are Kung Pao chicken and Yuxiang shredded pork.

UNESCO declared Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan Province, a city of gastronomy in 2011.

History

Sichuan cuisine is thought to have originated during the Spring and Autumn period and the Warring States period, the beginning of Qin and Han dynasties, and the formation of classical Sichuan cuisine in Han and Jin dynasties. In the Tang and Song Dynasties, Sichuan cuisine was developed further, and Sichuan restaurants spread throughout Kaifeng and Lin'an. During the Song dynasty, Sichuan cuisine became a distinct cuisine.

During the Ming and Qing dynasties, Sichuan cuisine developed further until the foundation of the modern Republic of China. Modern Sichuan cuisine eventually formed the characteristics of "rich variety", and "strong taste and spicy".

Chili peppers were introduced into Sichuan and widely used in Sichuan cuisine during the Kangxi period, which was a watershed between ancient Sichuan cuisine and modern Sichuan cuisine. The book "Flower Mirror" written and published by Chen Xiuzi in 1688 states in volume five: "Pepper, a sea mad vine, commonly known as spicy eggplant……the most spicy, used by many people, very fine, winter moon to replace pepper. [sic]"

In the Middle Ages, Sichuan welcomed Middle Eastern crops, such as broad beans, sesame and walnuts. Since the 16th century, the list of major crops in Sichuan has even been lengthened by New World newcomers. The chili pepper is native to Mexico, and likely arrived in Sichuan province from India or Macau, complementing the traditional Sichuan (Szechuan) peppercorns. Other newcomers from the New World included corn, which largely replaced millet; white potatoes introduced by Catholic missions; and sweet potatoes. The population of Sichuan was cut by about 75% in the wars from the Ming dynasty to the Qing dynasty. Settlers from the adjacent Hunan Province brought their cooking styles with them.

Sichuan is colloquially known as the "heavenly country" due to its abundance of food and natural resources. One ancient Chinese account declared that the "people of Sichuan uphold good flavors, and they are fond of hot and spicy taste." Most Sichuan dishes are spicy, although a typical meal includes nonspicy dishes to cool the palate. Sichuan cuisine is composed of seven basic tastes: sweet, sour, numbingly spicy, spicy, bitter, fragrant/aromatic, and salty. Sichuan food is divided into five different types: sumptuous banquet, ordinary banquet, popular foods, household-style food and snacks. Milder versions of Sichuan dishes remain a staple of American Chinese cuisine.

Wang Dayu, in the Sichuan cuisine history strategy by the Committee on Literature and History of the CPPCC, considers Sichuan cuisine to be roughly divided into Chengdu Bang, Chongqing Bang, Dahe Bang, and Xiaohe Bang categories.

Categories of Sichuan cuisine

Shanghe Gang Sichuan cuisine in Chengdu, and Leshan-centered areas in the west of Sichuan, is characterized by being rich in seasoning and having a relatively light taste. It often uses spicy bean paste and sugar for flavoring, and is the most widely known Sichuan cuisine.

Shanghe Bangchuan cuisine is based on traditional classical recipes. It has a mild taste and flavor while concentrating on premium dishes such as royal and official banquet dishes.

Xiaohe Bangchuan cuisine is centered on Zigong in southern Sichuan, and includes Yibin cuisine, Luzhou cuisine, and Neijiang cuisine, which are characterized by their rich tastes. Zigong Yanbang dishes are divided into three branches: salty commercial dishes, salty industrial dishes and hall dishes, with a spicy taste, mala, and sweet and sour taste.

Features

The complex topography of Sichuan Province, including its mountains, hills, plains, plateaus and the Sichuan Basin, has shaped its food customs with versatile and distinct ingredients.

Abundant rice and vegetables are produced from the fertile Sichuan Basin, whereas a wide variety of herbs, mushrooms and other fungi prosper in the highland regions. Pork is overwhelmingly the most common type of meat consumed. Beef is somewhat more common in Sichuan cuisine than it is in other Chinese cuisines, perhaps due to the prevalence of oxen in the region. Sichuan cuisine also uses various cow and pork offal as ingredients, including intestine, arteries, head, tongue, skin and liver. Rabbit meat is much more popular in Sichuan than elsewhere in China. It is estimated that the Sichuan Basin and Chongqing area are responsible for about 70 percent of China's total rabbit meat consumption. The salt produced from Sichuan salt springs and wells does not contain iodine, which led to issues with goiter before the 20th century.

Sichuan cuisine often contains food preserved through pickling, salting and drying. Preserved dishes are generally served as spicy dishes with heavy application of chili oil.

Ingredients

The most unique and important spice in Sichuan cuisine is the Sichuan (Szechuan) pepper (花椒; huājiāo; 'flower pepper'), which has an intense, fragrant citruslike taste and produces a notably distinct "numbingly spicy" (麻; má) sensation in the mouth. Other commonly used spices in Sichuan cuisine are garlic, chili peppers, ginger, and star anise.

Broad bean chili paste (豆瓣醬; dòubànjiàng) is another important seasoning. It is an essential component in famous dishes such as Mapo tofu and twice-cooked pork.

Sichuan cuisine is the origin of several prominent sauces/flavors widely used in modern Chinese cuisine, including:

Yuxiang (魚香)

Mala (麻辣)

Guaiwei (怪味)

Other examples of flavor combinations including spicy and hot (Mala), fish flavor (Yuxiang), hot and sour, the five spices (Wuxiang; 五香), ginger juice, mashed garlic, sweet and sour, spice salt (Jiaoyan; 椒鹽), dried tangerine or orange peel (Chenpi; 陳皮), burnt chili, pot-stewed fowl (Lu; 滷味), odd flavor (Guaiwei; 怪味), and other recombinations of these seasonings.

Notable foods

See also

China portal

Taiwan portal

Food portal

Hunan cuisine

Chen Kenmin

Chen Kenichi

List of Chinese dishes

References

^ "How can Sichuan cuisine break through three major problems if it wants to enter the international perspective?". November 18, 2023.

^ "Sichuan Cuisine History".

^ Dunlop (2003), p. 23-24.

^ UNESCO (2011). "Chengdu: UNESCO City of Gastronomy". UNESCO. Retrieved May 26, 2011.

^ a b c d Anderson, E.N. (2003). "Sichuan (Szechuan) Cuisine". Encyclopedia of Food and Culture. New York: Scribner's. pp. 393–395.

^ Fu, Peimei (傅培梅) (2005). 培梅名菜精選:川浙菜专辑 [Peimei's Selection of Famous Dishes: Special Edition on Sichuan and Zhejiang Cuisine] (in Traditional Chinese). Tangerine Culture Enterprise Co., Ltd. (橘子文化事業有限公司). p. 9.

^ "Is Sichuan food 100 dishes 100 flavors?".

^ HUI, YANG. "A Comparative Study on the Difference of Sichuan Cuisine in Shanghe Bang and Xiaohe Bang".

^ "A Comparative Study on the Differences of Food Culture in Shanghe Bang and Xiaohe Bang Sichuan Cuisine".

^ "Shanghe Bang-Mild and long-lasting taste". July 28, 2020.

^ "Sichuan Cuisine Food".

^ Peng, Pai (December 9, 2022). "Zigong Yanbang dishes-Not just cooking with salt".

^ Tropp, Barbara (1982). The Modern Art of Chinese Cooking. New York: Hearst Books. p. 183. ISBN 0-688-14611-2.

^ Geng, Olivia (June 13, 2014). "French Rabbit Heads: The Newest Delicacy in Chinese Cuisine". The Wall Street Journal Blog.

^ Ji, Yue; Li, Shiming; Ho, Chi-Tang (June 1, 2019). "Chemical composition, sensory properties and application of Sichuan pepper (Zanthoxylum genus)". Food Science and Human Wellness. 8 (2): 115–125. doi:10.1016/j.fshw.2019.03.008. ISSN 2213-4530. S2CID 132482961.

^ Dunlop (2003), p. 219-220.

^ Dunlop (2003), p. 45.

^ Dunlop (2003), p. 87-88.

^ Chiang (1976), p. 220-221.

^ "十大经典川菜 你吃过哪些？". 阿波罗新闻网 (in Chinese (China)). November 18, 2014. Retrieved November 5, 2020.

^ "Significant Visual Symbols Design, Logo Design Study of Chong Qing Hot Pot Brand"". Archived from the original on February 24, 2023. Retrieved February 24, 2023.

^ Chan, Kei-lum; Fong-Chan, Diora (2016). China: The Cookbook. London: Phaidon. p. 500. ISBN 9780714872247.

^ Hsiao-Ching Chou. "Dry Fried Green Beans". Chinese Soul Food. Archived from the original on April 25, 2019. Retrieved April 25, 2019.

^ Lee Hwa-lin (1993). Chinese Cuisine: Szechwan Style. Taipei, Taiwan: Chin Chin Publishing Co.Ltd. p. 78. ISBN 0941676315.

^ "Green Beans, Sichuan Style". Flavor and Fortune. Institute for the Advancement of the Science and Art of Chinese Cuisine. Archived from the original on June 20, 2019. Retrieved April 25, 2019.

^ "Szechuan Dry Fried Green Beans (Simplified version)". China Sichuan Food. October 11, 2017. Retrieved April 25, 2019.

^ Manyee Elaine Mar (November 18, 2013). The Everything Chinese Cookbook: Includes Tomato Egg Flower Soup, Stir-Fried Orange Beef, Spicy Chicken with Cashews, Kung Pao Tofu, Pepper-Salt Shrimp, and hundreds more! (2nd ed.). Avon, Massachusetts: F+W Publications, Inc. p. 255. ISBN 9781440568190.

^ Chiang (1976), p. 94-95.

^ Chiang (1976), p. 250-251.

^ "成都街头的冷啖杯，本地人习以为常，可是外地人却看不懂_生活". Sohu.

^ ""成都消夏饮食冷啖杯"". Archived from the original on December 2, 2010. Retrieved February 24, 2023.

^ Dunlop, Fuchsia (June 14, 2012). "Stir-fried potato slivers with chilli and sichuan pepper recipe". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved March 4, 2026.

Sources

Dunlop, Fuchsia (2003), Land of Plenty: A Treasury of Authentic Sichuan Cooking, New York: Norton, ISBN 0393051773. Internet Archive ONLINE

Chiang, Jung-Feng (1976), Mrs. Chiang's Szechwan Cookbook : Szechwan Home Cooking, Ellen Schrecker and John E. Schrecker, New York: Harper & Row, ISBN 006015828X. Internet Archive ONLINE.

Further reading

Fuchsia Dunlop. Shark's Fin and Sichuan Pepper: A Sweet-Sour Memoir of Eating in China. (New York: Norton, 2008). ISBN 9780393066579. The author's experience and observations, especially in Sichuan.

E. N. Anderson. "Sichuan (Szechuan) Cuisine," in Solomon H. Katz, William Woys Weaver. Encyclopedia of Food and Culture. (New York: Scribner, 2003; ISBN 0684805685). Vol I pp. 393–395.

Lu Yi, Du li. China Sichuan Cuisine (Chinese and English) Bilingual . Sichuan Publishing House of Science and Technology, 2010. ISBN 9787536469648.

Che Fu. Talk About Sichuan Flavor (Chinese Edition). Sichuan Literature & Art Publishing, 2011. ISBN 978-7541131523.

External links

Media related to Cuisine of Sichuan at Wikimedia Commons

NPR story on Sichuan cuisine and a cookbook about the cuisine

Ants climbing a tree

Bingfen

Laziji (chicken with chili peppers)

Dan dan noodles

Doubanjiang

Douhua

Fuqi feipian

Guaiwei

Hot and sour noodle

Chongqing hot pot

Hot pot

Kung Pao chicken

Leng chi tu

Malatang

Mala sauce

Maocai

Mapo tofu

Pao cai

Shuizhu

Sichuan pepper

Suanla chaoshou

Tuotuorou

Twice-cooked pork

Wonton

Wuliangye Yibin

Yanbangcai

Yuxiang

Zajiangmian

Zha cai

Zhangcha duck

Hong Kong cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

Politics

Economy

Education

Sanxingdui

Ba & Shu

Chengjia

Shu Han

Cheng-Han

Western Shu

Former Shu

Later Shu

Li Shu [zh]

Ming Xia

Sichuan-Mongol War [zh] (anti-Mongol fortresses)

Repopulation of Sichuan [yue]

Railway Protection Movement

Home Front Period

Cities

Sichuan Basin

Chengdu Plain

Regions West [zh] East [zh] North [zh] South [zh]

West [zh]

East [zh]

North [zh]

South [zh]

Rivers (Sichuan

Jialing

Yalong)

Mountain ranges Daba Longmen Qionglai Hengduan

Longmen

Qionglai

Hengduan

Ba–Shu culture

Clothing in ancient Shu

Sichuan embroidery

Sichuanese cuisine

Sichuanese liquor [zh]

Mengding Ganlu tea

Panda tea

Sichuan opera

Sichuanese music

Lord of Sichuan

Sichuanese architecture

Sichuanese garden

Sichuanese

Tibetan

Buddhism Chinese Buddhism Tibetan Buddhism

Chinese Buddhism

Tibetan Buddhism

Chinese folk religion Chinese salvationist religions

Chinese salvationist religions

Christianity Church of the East in Sichuan Catholic Church in Sichuan Protestantism in Sichuan Anglicanism in Sichuan Methodism in Sichuan Quakerism in Sichuan Baptist Christianity in Sichuan Seventh-day Adventist Church in Sichuan

Church of the East in Sichuan

Catholic Church in Sichuan

Protestantism in Sichuan Anglicanism in Sichuan Methodism in Sichuan Quakerism in Sichuan Baptist Christianity in Sichuan Seventh-day Adventist Church in Sichuan

Anglicanism in Sichuan

Methodism in Sichuan

Quakerism in Sichuan

Baptist Christianity in Sichuan

Seventh-day Adventist Church in Sichuan

Confucianism

Islam (Main article)

Taoism

Zoroastrianism (Main article)

Sichuanese (lingua franca)

Ba–Shu (extinct)

Sichuanese Standard Chinese

Jiarongic

Qiangic

Bailu, Pengzhou

Dujiangyan Irrigation System

Gsumge Mani Stone Castle

Huanglong Scenic and Historic Interest Area

Jiuzhaigou Valley

Leshan Giant Buddha

Mount Emei

Mount Gongga

Mount Qingcheng

Sanxingdui & Jinsha archaeological sites

Sichuan Giant Panda Sanctuaries

Southern Cliff Buddhist Sculptures

Category

Commons

Angolan

Central African Republic

Chadian

Ethiopian and Eritrean

Gabonese

Libyan

Moroccan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Togolese

Tunisian

São Tomé and Príncipe

Seychelles

Western Saharan

Anguillian

Jamaican

Mexican

United States Hawaiian Italian-American Jewish-American New Orleans Regional dishes Regional beverages Southern United States

Hawaiian

Italian-American

Jewish-American

New Orleans

Regional dishes

Regional beverages

Southern United States

Argentine

Brazilian

Colombian

Ecuadorian

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Venezuelan

Azerbaijani

Bangladeshi

Burmese

Caucasian

Chinese Beijing Sichuan Tibetan

Beijing

Sichuan

Tibetan

Filipino

Indian

Iranian

Indonesian

Israeli

Japanese

Jordan

Korean North Korean

North Korean

Malaysian

Maldivian

Nepalese

Palestinian

Peranakan

Russian

Singaporean

Turkish

Vietnamese

Azerbaijani

Caucasian

English

French

German

Hungarian Typical Hungarian dishes

Typical Hungarian dishes

Italian Sicilian

Sicilian

Liechtensteiner

Maltese

Norwegian

Polish

Portuguese

Romanian

Russian

Scottish

Spanish

Turkish

Ukrainian Crimean Tatar

Crimean Tatar

Australian

New Zealand

Jewish

National dishes

American

British

Indian

Pakistani

American

Armenian

British Cornish

Cornish

English

French

German

Italian

Polish

Spanish

Syrian

Filipino

French fry accompaniments

Indian

Indonesian

Japanese

Pakistani

American

Argentine

Bangladeshi

Brazilian

British

Chinese

Filipino

French

German

Indian

Indonesian

Italian

Japanese

Korean Tteok

Pakistani

Polish

Romanian

Russian

Spanish

Sri Lankan

Taiwanese

Turkish

Chinese

French

German

Indonesian

Italian

Japanese

Pakistani

Spanish

Snack foods by country Indian Indonesian Japanese

Indian

Indonesian

Japanese

American sandwiches

Foods with religious symbolism

Indonesian noodles

Pakistani meat

Pakistani rice

Pakistani vegetable

Puddings (savoury)

Vietnamese noodles

Vietnamese specialities

Baked goods Twice-baked

Twice-baked

Casseroles

Deep fried

Smoked

Steamed

Fermented Soy products

Soy products

Food pastes

Garnishes

Gravies

Instant

Pickled Pickled fruits

Pickled fruits

Rolled

Sauces Dessert sauces Fish sauces Hot sauces Instant sauces

Dessert sauces

Fish sauces

Hot sauces

Instant sauces

Spreads

Stuffed dishes

Almond

Breads bread dishes Buns Flatbreads Quick breads Rolls Sourdough breads Sweet breads

bread dishes

Flatbreads

Quick breads

Sourdough breads

Sweet breads

Buckwheat

Crackers

Dumplings

Fried dough

Legume Chickpea Peanut

Chickpea

Peanut

Noodles Noodle dishes Fried noodle dishes Ramen

Noodle dishes

Fried noodle dishes

Pancakes

Pasta Pasta dishes

Pasta dishes

Rice Fried rice Rice cakes Rice pudding

Fried rice

Rice cakes

Rice pudding

Rice and beans

Sesame seed

Butter dishes

Cheese dishes Fondues

Fondues

Cheeses Brined

Brined

Yogurt-based

Avocado

Banana

Broccoli

Cabbage

Carrot

Cassava

Cherry

Eggplant

Garlic

Potato French fry

French fry

Salads Arab Thai

Soy-based

Squash and pumpkin

Strawberry

Sweet potato

Tomato

Fish head

Fish stews

Fried fish

Herring

Raw fish

Salmon

Shrimp

Sushi and sashimi

Barbecue

Beef Shredded beef Steak Veal

Shredded beef

Chicken

Egg Scrambled eggs

Scrambled eggs

Hamburgers

Hot dogs

Kebabs

Meatball

Mixed grill

Pork Bacon Ham dishes Hams

Ham dishes

Sausages Sausage dishes

Sausage dishes

Cheese

Fish and seafood

Vegetable

Candies

Chocolate bars

Chocolate-covered

Cookies Sandwich cookie Shortbread

Sandwich cookie

Shortbread

Desserts Custard

Custard

Doughnuts

Pastries Choux pastry Poppy seed

Choux pastry

Poppy seed

Pies, tarts and flans

Puddings

Ancient

Bacon substitutes

Brand name snacks

Breakfast Cereals Drinks

Cereals

Drinks

Brunch

Christmas

Chutneys

Coconut

Coconut milk

Coffee

Comfort

Hangover remedies

Hors d'oeuvre Tapas

Made from maple

Mushroom

Pastries

Pies, tarts and flans

Porridges

Relishes

Sandwiches

Spit-roasted

Street

Syrups

Tortilla-based

Traditional

Food portal

Category: Lists of foods

United States

Latvia

Israel

Yale LUX

# Zhejiang cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Zhejiang cuisine, alternatively known as Zhe cuisine, is one of the Eight Culinary Traditions of Chinese cuisine. Zhejiang cuisine contains four different styles, Hangzhou, Shaoxing, Ningbo, and Wenzhou (also known as Ou cuisine). It derives from the traditional ways of cooking in Zhejiang Province, which is located south of Shanghai and centred around Hangzhou, a historical Chinese capital. In general, Zhejiang cuisine is not greasy but has a fresh and soft flavour with a mellow fragrance.

Styles

Zhejiang cuisine consists of at least three styles, each originating from a major city in the province:

Hangzhou style: Characterised by rich variations and the use of bamboo shoots. It is served in restaurants such as the Dragon Well Manor.

Shaoxing style: Specialising in poultry and freshwater fish.

Ningbo style: Specialising in seafood, with emphasis on freshness and salty dishes.

Some sources also include the Wenzhou style Ou cuisine as a separate subdivision due to its proximity to Fujian Province. Wenzhou style is characterised as the greatest source of seafood as well as poultry and livestock.

Notable dishes

Ningbo cuisine is regarded as rather salty. Ningbo confectioneries were celebrated all over China during the Qing dynasty.

References

^ "Beijing 2008 Olympics - Zhejiang Cuisine". People's Daily Online. 2008. Retrieved 2008-09-22.

^ a b "Zhejiang Cuisine". China Daily. 2005. Archived from the original on September 18, 2008. Retrieved 2008-09-22.

^ Dunlop, Fuchsia (26 September 2009). "Hangzhou's rich gastronomic history". Financial Times. Archived from the original on 2022-12-11. Retrieved 2011-05-30.

^ "Zhejiang Cuisine and Restaurants". www.ChinaPlanner.com. 2004. Archived from the original on 15 June 2008. Retrieved 22 September 2008.

^ Benjamin, Marcus; Bostwick, Arthur Elmore; Van Casteel, Gerald; Hagar, George Jotham, eds. (1910). A New Work of Reference Based Upon the Best Authorities, and Systematically Arranged for Use in Home and School. Appleton's New Practical Cyclopedia. Vol. 4. New York: D. Appleton and Company. p. 432.

History

Politics

Economy

Cities

Huangmaojian

Mount Mogan

Tiantai Mountain

Yangtze River Delta

Grand Canal

Qiantang River

Ou River

Zhoushan Island

Hangzhou Bay

Double First-Class Zhejiang University Ningbo University China Academy of Art

Zhejiang University

Ningbo University

China Academy of Art

List of universities and colleges in Zhejiang

Wuyue culture

Wu Chinese Taihu Wu Hangzhou dialect Ningbo dialect Wenzhou dialect (Rui'an dialect) Jinhua dialect Quzhou dialect

Taihu Wu Hangzhou dialect Ningbo dialect

Hangzhou dialect

Ningbo dialect

Wenzhou dialect (Rui'an dialect)

(Rui'an dialect)

Jinhua dialect

Quzhou dialect

Southern Min Zhenan Min

Zhenan Min

Yue opera

Longjing tea

Shaoxing wine

Baoguo Temple

Guoqing Temple

Mount Putuo

Ruyi Bridge

Mount Tiantai

Qiandao Lake

Tomb of Yu the Great

Category

Commons

United States

Israel

Yale LUX

# Dim sum


# Hot pot


Media: Hotpot

Hot pot (traditional Chinese: 火鍋; simplified Chinese: 火锅; pinyin: huǒguō; lit. 'fire pot') or hotpot, also known as steamboat, is a dish of soup or stock kept simmering in a pot by a heat source on the table, accompanied by an array of raw meats, vegetables and soy-based foods which diners quickly cook by dipping in the broth.

Description

Hot pot is a flavorful broth traditionally served inside a large metal pot. There are many local varieties and styles of hot pot, like Chongqing hot pot, Beijing hot pot, Yunnan hot pot, and so on. The broth is brought to a boil and left simmering for the duration of the meal. Raw ingredients, such as meat and vegetables, are placed into the simmering broth and thus cooked. The cooked pieces are dipped into dipping sauces for additional flavor. Hot pot is considered a main course and may be served without rice or noodles on the side.

Typical hot pot ingredients include thinly sliced meat (typically mutton or beef), leaf vegetables, mushrooms, vermicelli, sliced potatoes, bean products, egg dumplings, tofu, and seafood. Raw ingredients are sliced into thin sections that will cook quickly and consistently in the simmering broth, which is kept at a gentle boiling temperature. Most raw foods can be cooked in a hot pot, although they may have different cooking times, and must be immersed in the soup and then removed accordingly. In turn, the various food items dipped in the hot pot provide additional flavour to the broth.

History

The tripods of Zhou dynasty may be the earliest prototypes of the hot pot. Diners among the nobility each had a personal pot made of bronze, called ran lu 燃爐. The main part of ran lu was a small stove with a small pot above burning charcoal. Later, a hot pot made with copper was created during the Three Kingdoms period (200–280 AD), which is generally acknowledged as the origin of the hot pot. During the Qing dynasty, hot pot became popular among the emperors. In particular, the Qianlong Emperor was very fond of hot pot and would eat it for almost every meal. Later, the Jiaqing Emperor had a banquet with 1,550 hot pots at his coronation. Empress Dowager Cixi was also known to have enjoyed hot pot with Chrysanthemum, especially during the winter season.

Since the 1990s, as the number of Chinese expatriates entering the United States has grown significantly, the popularity of Chinese food has also risen in the U.S. and hot pot has become globally recognized.

Common ingredients

Basic stock is often made using: Water Salt Spices

Spices

Meats and protein vary, and can include: Thinly sliced lamb, goat, beef, sometimes pork, chicken, or other poultry Whole or sliced fish Shrimp Clams and other bivalves Beef balls Fish balls Shrimp balls and paste Offal, especially beef tripe Blood sausage Crab Lobster Crayfish Squid and other inkfish Sea cucumber Tofu, tofu skin, fu zhu, Japanese-style fish tofu, frozen tofu or fried tofu Egg dumplings (蛋餃) Fish cakes Mantis shrimp Quail eggs Chicken feet Ribs

Thinly sliced lamb, goat, beef, sometimes pork, chicken, or other poultry

Whole or sliced fish

Shrimp

Clams and other bivalves

Beef balls

Fish balls

Shrimp balls and paste

Offal, especially beef tripe

Blood sausage

Lobster

Crayfish

Squid and other inkfish

Sea cucumber

Tofu, tofu skin, fu zhu, Japanese-style fish tofu, frozen tofu or fried tofu

Egg dumplings (蛋餃)

Fish cakes

Mantis shrimp

Quail eggs

Chicken feet

Starches include: Glass noodles Chinese noodles Udon Niangao

Glass noodles

Chinese noodles

Niangao

Vegetables such as: Bok choy Napa cabbage Crown daisy Spinach Lettuce Carrots Winter melon Bean sprouts Daikon Potatoes and sweet potatoes Varieties of mushrooms, such as straw mushrooms, enoki (金針菇), shiitake (香菇), and oyster mushrooms Taro Pumpkin Watercress Haidai (seaweed) Cilantro

Bok choy

Napa cabbage

Crown daisy

Spinach

Lettuce

Carrots

Winter melon

Bean sprouts

Daikon

Potatoes and sweet potatoes

Varieties of mushrooms, such as straw mushrooms, enoki (金針菇), shiitake (香菇), and oyster mushrooms

Pumpkin

Watercress

Haidai (seaweed)

Cilantro

Condiments: Peanut butter Sesame butter Hoisin sauce Soy sauce Vinegar (white or black) Cilantro Minced garlic Scallion Sesame oil Shacha sauce Chili oil Chive flower paste (韭菜花醬) Fermented bean curd (腐乳) White pepper XO sauce Douchi Minced ginger Chopped peanut

Peanut butter

Sesame butter

Hoisin sauce

Soy sauce

Vinegar (white or black)

Cilantro

Minced garlic

Scallion

Sesame oil

Shacha sauce

Chili oil

Chive flower paste (韭菜花醬)

Fermented bean curd (腐乳)

White pepper

XO sauce

Douchi

Minced ginger

Chopped peanut

Regional variations

East Asia

Chinese hot pots are often divided into "Southern style" and "Northern style", paralleling the northern and southern Chinese cultural divide. Although there are wide regional variations, in general, Southern styles tend to have spicy broths and complex dipping sauces, and are heavier on seafood, vegetables and mushrooms, while Northern styles are simpler and focus more on meat, particularly mutton.

According to research, 67 different spices and condiments are commonly used in traditional Chinese hotpot, involving 82 plant species of 50 genera in 26 families.

Modern eateries offer a partitioned pot with differently flavored broths in each section. More traditional or older establishments often serve a fragrant, mild broth in a large brass vessel heated by burning coals in a central chimney. The broth is simmered in a deep, donut-shaped bowl surrounding the chimney.[citation needed]

Instant-boiled mutton (Chinese: 涮羊肉; pinyin: Shuàn Yángròu) could be viewed as representative of "northern style hot pot", which focus on the main ingredients rather than the soup base. Water is used as the main ingredient of the hotpot instead of the flavored broth.

The Manchu hot pot (Chinese: 東北酸菜火鍋) uses plenty of suan cai (Chinese cabbage pickle) (Chinese: 酸菜; pinyin: suān cài) to make the broth sour.

In Hubei cuisine, hot pot is normally prepared with hot spices and Sichuan pepper. Items supplied to be cooked in this broth include mushrooms, thinly shaved beef or lamb, lettuce, and various other green vegetables.

One of the most famous Southern variations is the Chongqing hot pot (Chinese:重慶火鍋), which uses mala seasoning flavored with chili and Sichuan pepper for a spicy and numbing flavor. Chongqing hotpots often feature a wide variety of different meats and ingredients, and offer many sauces and condiments to flavor the meat. The typical dipping sauce contains sesame oil and is mixed with crushed fresh garlic and chopped spring onions.[full citation needed]

Sichuan also has a number of "dry" hot pots such as mala xiangguo (Chinese: 麻辣香鍋), which are similar to mala hot pot in ingredients and seasoning, but stir-fried instead of being cooked in broth.

In Yunnan, there is another predominant type of hot pot made with various mushrooms, wild or farmed. It is called the wild mushroom hot pot (Chinese: 野生菌火鍋). Due to the vast forests and abundant natural resources in Yunnan, people can find a wide variety of edible mushrooms. The easily accessible and fresh mushroom resources lead to the high popularity of the wild mushroom hot pot. The big difference between the mushroom hot pot and the spicy hot pot is that the former omits strong spice and chili, and the latter preserves the original flavor of the mushrooms. The mushroom hot pot is also seasonal, depending on the availability of local mushrooms.

A Cantonese variation includes mixing a raw egg with the condiments to reduce the amount of "heat" absorbed by the food, thereby reducing the likelihood of a sore throat after the steamboat meal, according to Chinese herbalist theories.

In Hainan cuisine, hot pot is generally served in small woks with a prepared broth containing pieces of meat. At the time of serving, the meat is not fully cooked, and approximately fifteen minutes are required before it is ready to eat. Items supplied to be cooked in this type of hot pot include mushrooms, thinly shaved beef or goat meat, lettuce, and other green vegetables. This dish varies somewhat in different parts of the province. Coconut milk and juice is commonly added into the hot pot.

In Jiangsu and Zhejiang cuisine, chrysanthemum flowers are cooked in the broth to give it a floral essence.

In Teochew cuisine, a popular choice is Chaoshan beef hotpot (Chinese: 潮汕牛肉火锅) which originates from the Chaoshan region in Guangdong. Chaoshan beef hotpot is distinctively different from other Chinese hot pot styles due to its clear broth, which is typically made from beef bones and sometimes chicken. Chaoshan beef hotpot is served with roughly 7 cuts of beef and a variety of dipping sauces, most commonly a mixture of Shacha sauce, soy sauce, garlic, chili, and others.

In Japan, hot pots are known as nabemono. There are many variations, including sukiyaki, yosenabe, shabu-shabu, oden, and chankonabe.

The Chinese-style hot pot is transliterated as hinabe (火鍋, hinabe).

In Korea, jeongol and jjigae can be compared to hot pot. There are many variations, including budae-jjigae and kimchi-jjigae.

The Chinese-style hot pot is transliterated as hwogwo (火鍋, 훠궈).

In Taiwanese cuisine, it is very common to eat hotpot food with a dipping sauce consisting of shacha sauce and raw egg yolk with stir-fried beef(沙茶牛肉爐). One of the most authentic hotpot restaurants that locals widely praise is a hotpot restaurant called "Xiao Haozhou's sha-cha beef hot pot." This restaurant was founded in 1949 by a man named Musheng Chen. The popularity of this hot pot restaurant and its unique secret recipe of sha-cha sauce has become one of the iconic sha-cha sauce brands in Taiwanese cuisine nowadays. Initially, this hotpot is only assorted with a light broth and dip with sha-cha sauce. Influenced by Japanese cuisine, shacha sauce is now commonly served with raw egg yolk.

The Taiwanese also developed their own homegrown culinary sensibilities with a style of chili hotpot originated from the Szechuan chili hotpot style. In the Taiwanese style of chili hotpot, people who barely tolerate spicy favor are included. Rather than using animal offal as the main ingredient, the Taiwanese style of chili hotpot uses seafood and beef as their main ingredient due to Taiwan's location near the sea.

In Taiwan, people usually have a hotpot meal during the Lunar New Year's Eve. Different from the usual days of cooking hotpots with whatever ingredients they like, the Taiwanese follow the principles of the five elements when cooking the Lunar year Taiwan hotpot. They believe that by following the current principle of these five elements, then the food they eat can gain a "mutual generation sequence" (xiangsheng 相生) that is beneficial to the ones that eat them. In Taiwanese hotpot, these five elements are represented with the food in five colors: white, black, yellow, red, and green. Therefore, the five indispensable foods are

stew turnip, which represents white;

mushroom, which represents black;

burdock or pumpkin, which represents yellow;

carrot or tomato, which represents red and reddish leaves, which represent green.

Moreover, locals believe that the more colors of ingredients in a hotpot, the more different nutrients they will gain from eating it. The reason why it is so crucial for Taiwanese people to consume hot pot during the lunar year is that hot pot not only represents rich nutrition and blessings for family health, but it also represents family reunion and harmony.

Southeast Asia

In Cambodian cuisine, hot pot is called yao hon (យ៉ាវហន) or chhnang pleurng (ឆ្នាំងភ្លើង, lit. 'pot fire'). It is usually eaten during celebrations or family gatherings. Just like the Chinese version, Cambodian hot pot consists of similar ingredients although the dish differs in that coconut milk is used as the base of the soup. Another variation of the dish is called "buttered yao hon" or "buttered chhnang pleurng"; the same ingredients are used but are instead cooked on a flat grill pan where butter is used as the base (this is similar to Korean barbecue). An herb sauce is usually added to "buttered yao hon", since the ingredients are not flavored by immersion in a broth.

In Lao cuisine, hot pot is called sin jum (ຊີ້ນຈຸ່ມ), which means dipped meat, although seafood is also a popular option. Sin jum is generally a leisurely meal enjoyed among family members at home, or among colleagues and friends in restaurants in cities across Laos. Usually, Lao style hot pots use the brown clay pots that are immediately evident in restaurants or stalls that serve the dish along the side of the streets. The broth is prepared from beef ribs, pork bones, or chicken combined with galangal, lemongrass, white onions, and cilantro roots, and sometimes with coconut water. Ingredients include a variety of fresh vegetables, such as water spinach, watercress, bokchoi, napa cabbage, mushrooms, glass vermicelli noodles. Thinly sliced marinated pork, beef, or chicken meat, seafood or eggs are protein source options. The condiments for a Lao hot pot normally include crushed chili and minced raw garlic, lime wedges, cilantro leaves and fish sauce. In the capital Vientiane, there are also numerous restaurants serving Japanese shabu-shabu and Korean and regional Chinese hot pots.

In Philippine cuisine, hotpot is commonly served by Chinese specialty restaurants, and in some all-you-can-eat buffets. The terms shabu-shabu and "hotpot" are also used interchangeably for this style of food preparation. In Cebu City, a specialty restaurant offers a "hot pot" that is literally a huge ceramic pot filled with cooked rice, choice of beef, pork, or chicken slices, special sauce, and choice vegetables such as broccoli, carrot, shallot, ginger, pechay, kangkong leaves, spices, and some slices of hard-boiled eggs on top; it is more similar to kamameshi than the namesake.[citation needed]

In Thai cuisine, hotpot is called Thai suki, although it is quite different from the Japanese shabu-shabu variation called sukiyaki. Originally a Chinese-style hot pot, the number of ingredients to choose from was greatly increased and a Thai-style dipping sauce with chili sauce, chili, lime, and cilantro leaves was added. Another variation is mu kratha, the Thai hot pot which originated from Korean barbecue combined with Thai suki. In the Northeast region, a similar style of cooking called chim chum where thinly sliced meat is cooked in clay pots on charcoal stove is also popular. Tom yum is a common soup base for Thai hot pot.

In Vietnamese cuisine, a hot pot is called lẩu. There are many styles of lẩu ranging from seafood lẩu hải sản, canh chua soup-base (lẩu canh chua) or salted fish hot pot (lẩu mắm).

Europe

In Swiss cuisine, a variation of the traditional Chinese hot pot locally called fondue chinoise (lit. "Chinese fondue") is a popular Christmas meal. Various types of meat, fish and vegetables are boiled in a shared pot of broth. Various sauces and pickled condiments are provided on the side. After all the diners have finished cooking, they eat the now-well-flavored broth often combined with thin noodles.

In many regions outside of Asia, hot pot is commonly enjoyed at home or in restaurants using small portable stoves placed at the dining table. These can include butane gas stoves, induction hobs, or electric hot plates, which provide a stable simmer throughout the meal and are convenient for both indoor and outdoor dining. Portable induction cookers in particular have gained popularity for hot pot, as they are energy-efficient, easy to clean, and safer to use in enclosed spaces compared to open-flame stoves.

Similar dishes

Instant-boiled mutton

Jeongol - Korea Sinseollo

Sinseollo

Nabemono - Japan Shabu-shabu Sukiyaki Oden Chankonabe

Shabu-shabu

Sukiyaki

Chankonabe

Yao hon (យ៉ាវហន) or chhnang pleurng (ឆ្នាំងភ្លើង) - Cambodia Buttered chhnang pleurng

Buttered chhnang pleurng

Thai suki

Mu kratha – also called "Thai hot pot" or mookata

Clay pot cooking – referred to as "hot pot" or "hotpot" on Chinese restaurant menus in English-speaking regions

Lancashire hotpot – a dish referred to as "hot pot" (or "hotpot") in Britain

Stew – may include similar ingredients but is not necessarily cooked the same way

Yong tau foo

Fondue bourguignonne and fondue chinoise

See also

Food portal

China portal

Buffet

Fondue

List of Chinese dishes

List of stews

Perpetual stew

Slow cooker

References

^ a b Wu, Menghua; Guo, Ping; Tsui, Sze Wai; Chen, Hubiao; Zhao, Zhongzhen (2012). "An ethnobotanical survey of medicinal spices used in Chinese hotpot". Food Research International. 48 (1): 226–232. doi:10.1016/j.foodres.2012.03.010.

^ Usage example of the word "steamboat": "Guidelines for Safer Steamboat Meals" (PDF). Safe Food Practices & Guidelines. Singapore Food Agency. May 31, 2019. Archived (PDF) from the original on July 28, 2022. Retrieved May 14, 2024.

^ Song, Cen; Zheng, Li; Shan, Xiaojun (Gene) (November 3, 2022). "An analysis of public opinions regarding Internet-famous food: a 2016–2019 case study on Dianping". British Food Journal. 124 (12): 4462–4476. doi:10.1108/BFJ-05-2021-0510. ISSN 0007-070X. S2CID 246552798.

^ Koetse, Manya (November 25, 2018). "THE 8 HOTPOT STYLES TO KNOW". Hotpot Ambassador. Retrieved December 7, 2024.

^ Zhang, Zhihe; Tan, Yiran; Wen, Zi (2023). "吃火锅，古人是认真的" [Eating hot pot, the ancients were serious.]. 奇妙博物馆 – via CNKI.

^ Mok, Laramie (February 7, 2019). "Why did the Empress Dowager Cixi add chrysanthemum petals to her Chinese hotpot?". South China Morning Post. Retrieved December 9, 2025.

^ McDougall, James I. (January 2, 2021). "Globalization of Sichuan hot pot in the 'new era'". Asian Anthropology. 20 (1): 77–92. doi:10.1080/1683478X.2020.1779970. ISSN 1683-478X. S2CID 225684185.

^ "How hotpot's history boiled over into a national controversy". South China Morning Post. September 15, 2018. Retrieved March 24, 2024.

^ "Significant Visual Symbols Design, Logo Design Study of Chong Qing Hot Pot Brand". Archived from the original on February 24, 2023. Retrieved November 24, 2019.

^ "The farm boy who became owner of one of Singapore's largest mala xiang guo chains". CNA. Retrieved March 24, 2024.

^ a b Jinke, Zhu (May 6, 2025). "为什么广东潮汕牛肉火锅这么火？" [Why is Chaoshan beef hot pot from Guangdong so popular?]. ThePaper.cn (in Chinese).

^ Junqian, Xu (March 1, 2016). "Hotpot restaurant mad about cow[2]- Chinadaily.com.cn". ChinaDaily.com.cn. Retrieved July 9, 2025.

^ Jacobs, Ananda (October 21, 2014). "Self-cooked hot pot is a veggie's fall dream". The Japan Times.

^ Tseng, Lin-Yi (September 3, 2018). "An accidental journey: sha-cha sauce and beef consumption in Tainan since 1949". Social Transformations in Chinese Societies. 14 (2): 107–116. doi:10.1108/STICS-04-2018-0008. ISSN 1871-2673. S2CID 81910262.

^ a b Chen, Yu-Chen; Fong, Ya-San; Li, Yi-He; Ma, Min-Yuan (2010). Research of Taiwanese chili hot pot culture – Attractiveness and consumers (PDF). International conference on kansei engineering and emotion research 2010. p. 2. 272. Archived (PDF) from the original on January 3, 2023.

^ "Cantonese Cuisine (Yue-cai) in Taiwan and Taiwanese Cuisine (Tai-cai) in Hong Kong", Globalization of Chinese Food, Routledge, pp. 106–119, November 12, 2012, doi:10.4324/9780203060346-16 (inactive July 12, 2025), ISBN 9780203060346, retrieved October 25, 2022{{citation}}: CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of July 2025 (link) CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link)

^ Srey, Kim. "Mami-Eggroll: "Yow Hon" for Two". mami-eggroll.com.

^ "Street-Side Hot Pot Dining in Laos". Go Backpacking. August 22, 2013. Retrieved September 15, 2023.

^ "Got Hot Pot? Vientiane's Local Dining Spots that won't Cost a Lot". The Laotian Times. February 26, 2023. Retrieved September 15, 2023.

^ "Make your own sauces for your hot pot indulgence". September 23, 2015.

^ "Fleischfondue richtig genießen : so isst man richtig das Fleischfondue". Blick. December 22, 2017.

^ "What to Know About Portable Induction Cooktops". Consumer Reports. November 15, 2021. Retrieved September 12, 2025.

Further reading

Klein, E.F.; Graves, S.A. (February 1974). "'Hot Pot' Tracheitis". Chest. 65 (2): 225–226. doi:10.1378/chest.65.2.225. PMID 4521026.

Guo, Qiaozhen; Zhang, Jing; Zhao, Shan; Shao, Bing (July 26, 2012). "Determination of Five Alkaloids of Pericarpium Papaveris in Hot Pot Broth Using Ultra-Performance Liquid Chromatography Coupled to Triple Quadruple Mass Spectrometry". Food Analytical Methods. 6 (2): 698–704. doi:10.1007/s12161-012-9479-2. S2CID 98483241.

Newman, Jacqueline M. (May 2009). "China's Dongbei Cuisine". Gastronomica. 9 (2): 82–86. doi:10.1525/gfc.2009.9.2.82.

Oum, Young Rae (January 23, 2007). "Authenticity and representation: cuisines and identities in Korean-American diaspora". Postcolonial Studies. 8 (1): 109–125. doi:10.1080/13688790500134380. S2CID 145365993.

Slack, Susan Fuller (2001). "Chinese Hot Pots". Fondues and Hot Pots. Penguin. pp. 71–88. ISBN 978-1-55788-369-8.

Kimoto-Kahn, Amy (2019). "Anatomy of a Hot Pot". Simply Hot Pots: A Complete Course in Japanese Nabemono and Other Asian One-Pot Meals. Race Point Publishing. pp. 19–23. ISBN 978-1-63106-567-5.

Pickowicz, Natasha (2026). Everyone Hot Pot: Creating the Ultimate Meal for Gathering and Feasting. Artisan Books. ISBN 978-1-64829-380-1.

External links

Media related to Huoguo at Wikimedia Commons

A blog related to Chinese Hot pot at G Adventures

An article related to Hot pot at WikiHow

Aiwowo

Bing guo

Chao hongguo

Chaogan

Chatang

Douzhi

Erguotou

Fuling jiabing

Hot pot

Instant-boiled mutton

Jingjiang rousi

Jiaoquan

Kaikouxiao

Liangfen

Luzhu huoshao

Luosi zhuan

Misandao

Mizhi hulu

Beijing yogurt

Peking duck

Qingtang wanzi

Ruanzha liji

Spring pancake

Xigua lao

Xingren doufu

Yinsi juan

Yundou juan

Zhajiangmian

Category

Commons

Bao yu

Bird's nest soup

Buddha's delight

Cantonese seafood soup

Chinese steamed eggs

Congee

Crispy fried chicken

Dragon tiger phoenix

Egg foo young

Eight treasure duck

Eight treasure rice

Hot pot

Lemon chicken

Pork knuckles and ginger stew

Seafood birdsnest

Shark fin soup

Snake bite chicken

Soy sauce chicken

Steam minced pork

Subgum

Suckling pig

Sweet and sour pork

White boiled shrimp

White cut chicken

Wonton noodles

Yangzhou fried rice

Almond tofu

Beef tripe

Cha siu bao

Chicken feet

Coconut bar

Har gow

Jian dui

Jiaozi

Lo mai gai

Lotus seed bun

Nian gao

Ox-tongue pastry

Rice noodle roll

Shumai

Spring roll

Steamed meatball

Swiss wing

Taro cake

Taro dumpling

Tendon

Tofu skin roll

Turnip cake

Water chestnut cake

Yau gok

Youtiao

Zhaliang

Char siu

Chinese sausage

Lou mei

Orange cuttlefish

Roast goose

Siu mei

Siu yuk

White cut chicken

Almond biscuit

Biscuit roll

Deuk Deuk Tong

Douhua

Ginger milk curd

Lo mai chi

Malay sponge cake

Mooncake

Red bean cake

Red bean soup

Sausage bun

Snow skin mooncake

Tang bu shuai

Tong sui

White sugar sponge cake

Fermented bean curd

Five-spice powder

XO sauce

Beef ball

Black bean paste

Chenpi

Conpoy

Fermented black beans

Fish ball

Fishcake

Frog legs

Garland chrysanthemum

Kai-lan

Mantis shrimp

Ong choy

Pig blood curd

Pig's ear

Rapeseed

Saang mein

Sea cucumbers

Shahe fen

Shrimp roe noodles

Spare ribs

Suan cai

Tofu skin

Wonton

Yi mein

Youmian

Zha cai

Chinese herb tea

Dried shredded squid

Lou fo tong

Cantonese restaurant

Beijing cuisine

Shanghai cuisine

Hong Kong cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

History

Politics

Independence movement

Economy

Administrative divisions

Cities

Gobi Desert

Tengger Desert

Climate

Inner Mongolia University

Inner Mongolia Normal University

Chifeng University

Music of Inner Mongolia

Mongolian language (in Inner Mongolia)

Mongolian script

Northeastern Mandarin

Plain Blue Banner

Hot pot

Shiretu Juu

Zhaojun Tomb

Mausoleum of Genghis Khan

Hexigten Global Geopark

Wanbu Huayanjing Pagoda

Category

Commons

Adzuki bean

Bamboo

Banana flower

Barbeque

Coconut

Eggplant

Erkuai

Flowers

Crossing-the-bridge noodles

Hot pot

Jackfruit

Jidou liangfen

Granny's potato

Mi gan

Mi xian

Mushrooms

Nashi pear

Palm sugar

Pineapple rice

Pu'er tea

Steam pot chicken

Rubing

Rushan

Sichuan pepper

Shiping tofu

Spring rolls

Sweet potato

Tangerine

Xuanwei ham

Xidoufen

Zhe'ergen

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Beef noodle soup

Bento (Taiwan Railway Bento)

Congee

Coffin bread

Cuttlefish geng

Eel noodles

General Tso's chicken

Ginger duck

Glass noodles

Karasumi

Khong bah png

Lo bah png

Mongolian barbecue Mongolian beef

Mongolian beef

Mutton hot pot

Neritic squid rice noodles

Oyster vermicelli

Pineapple shrimp balls

Pork ball

Pumpkin rice vermicelli

Rice vermicelli

Sanbeiji

Sesame oil chicken

Sio-tsiú-ke

Ta-a mi

Turkey rice

Tsang Ying Tou

Tshik-á-mī

Tube rice pudding

Se-lóo-bah

Wu geng chang wang

Wanluan pork knuckle

Yao duen pai gu

Ba-wan

Barrel chicken

Chicken wing rice roll

Curry beef turnover

Danbing

Egg sausage

Fish ball

Fragrant sausage

Fried gluten with peanuts

Gua bao

Hujiao bing

Iron egg

Ji Pai

Lu wei

Milkfish congee

Moon shrimp cakes

Nutritious sandwich

Oo-peh-tshiat

Oyster omelette

Popiah

Scallion pancake

Shuangbaotai

Sishen soup

Small sausage in large sausage

Spring roll

Stinky tofu

Taiwanese fried chicken Cutlet

Cutlet

Tāu-kuann-tshiám

Tea egg

Tempura

Ti-hueh-kué

Xiaolongbao

Zongzi

Alivongvong

Cinavu

Millet wine

Aiyu jelly

Apple bread

Bakkwa

Brown sugar cake

Chhau-a-koe

Coconut bar

Concave cake

Communist bandit pastry

Douhua

Dried shredded squid

Egg yolk pastry

Grass jelly

Ji dan gao

Kiâm-piánn

Lek-tau-phong

Mango shaved ice

Ōo-á-ping

Peanut soup

Peanut ice cream roll

Pineapple cake

QQ egg

Scallion bread

Square cookie

Suncake

Taro ball

Taro pastry

Tshuah-ping

Wheel Pie

Youtiao

Coffee

Doujiang

Ginger tea

Grape wine

Kaoliang liquor

Mr. Brown Coffee

Papaya milk

Soy milk

Whisky

Taiwanese tea Bubble tea Cheese tea Fo Shou tea Tung-ting tea High mountain tea Lei cha Pouchong

Bubble tea

Cheese tea

Fo Shou tea

Tung-ting tea

High mountain tea

Lei cha

Pouchong

Watermelon milk

Winter melon punch

Black bean paste

Black vinegar

Milkfish

Rousong

Shacha sauce

André Chiang

Ching He Huang

Erchen Chang

Fu Pei-mei

Justine Li

Peng Chang-kuei

Wang Peng-chieh

Wu Pao-chun

Agriculture

Aquaculture

Kuai Kuai culture

List of Michelin-starred restaurants in Taiwan

List of restaurants in Taiwan

List of Taiwanese desserts and snacks

Night markets List

Tea culture

Q texture

Rechao

Category

Commons

Portal

WikiProject

bookshelf

# Wine in China


Wine (Chinese: 葡萄酒 pútáojiǔ lit. "grape alcohol") has a long history in China. Although long overshadowed by huangjiu (sometimes translated as "yellow wine") and the much stronger distilled spirit baijiu, wine consumption has grown dramatically since the reform and opening up of the 1980s. China is now numbered among the top ten global markets for wine. Ties with French producers are especially strong, and Ningxia wines have received international recognition.

History

Use of wild grapes in production of alcoholic beverages has been attested at the Jiahu archaeological site (c. 7000 BC). High quality wine called qióng jiāng yù yè (Chinese: 瓊漿玉液) is mentioned in the Complete Tang Poems (Quan Tangshi), an 18th-century collection of around 50,000 poems compiled during the reign of the Kangxi Emperor. The phrase translates literally to "jade-like wine", but has an idiomatic meaning along the lines of "wonderful wine".

In 1995, a joint Sino-USA archaeology team including archaeologists from the Archeology Research Institute of Shandong University and American archaeologists under the leadership of Professor Fang Hui investigated the two archaeological sites 20 km to the northeast of Rizhao, and discovered the remnants of a variety of alcoholic beverages including grape wine, rice wine, mead, and several mixed beverages of these wines. Out of more than two hundred ceramic pots discovered at the sites, seven were specifically used for grape wine. Remnants of grape seeds were also discovered. If grape wine consumption was once present in Bronze Age China, however, it was replaced by consumption of a range of alcoholic beverages made from sorghum, millet, rice, and fruits such as lychee or Asian plum. In the 130s and 120s BC, a Chinese imperial envoy of the Han dynasty (206 BC – 220 AD) named Zhang Qian opened diplomatic relations with several Central Asian kingdoms, some of which produced grape wine. By the end of the second century BC, Han envoys had brought grape seeds from the wine-loving kingdom of Dayuan (Ferghana in modern Uzbekistan) back to China and had them planted on imperial lands near the capital Chang'an (near modern-day Xi'an in Shaanxi province). The Shennong Bencao Jing, a work on materia medica compiled in the late Han, states that grapes could be used to produce wine. In the Three Kingdoms era (220–280 AD), Wei emperor Cao Pi noted that grape wine "is sweeter than the wine made [from cereals] using ferments and sprouted grain. One recovers from it more easily when one has taken too much." Grapes continued to be grown in the following centuries, notably in the northwestern region of Gansu, but were not used to produce wine on a large scale. Wine thus remained an exotic product known by few people.

Not until the Tang dynasty (618–907) did the consumption of grape wines become more common. After the Tang conquest of Gaochang – an oasis state on the Silk Road located near Turfan in modern Xinjiang – in 641, the Chinese obtained the seeds of an elongated grape called "mare teat" (maru 馬乳) and learned from Gaochang a "method of wine making" (jiu fa 酒法). Several Tang poets versified on grape wine, celebrating wine from the "Western Regions" – that from Liangzhou was particularly noted – or from Taiyuan in Shanxi, the latter of which produced wine made from the "mare teat" grape. Meng Shen's 孟詵 Materia Dietetica (Shiliao Bencao 食療本草) and the government-sponsored Newly Compiled Materia Medica (Xinxiu bencao 新修本草; 652) record that Tang people produced naturally fermented wine.

China's "first modern winery" Changyu was founded in 1892 in Shandong province near the treaty port of Chefoo (now called Yantai) by the overseas Chinese entrepreneur Zhang Bishi.

Production

National trends

French wine was the first foreign wine imported into China. In 1980, at the beginning of Chinese economic reform, Rémy Martin ventured into China to set up the first joint-venture enterprise in Tianjin: the Dynasty (Wang Chao, 王朝) Wine Ltd., which was also the second joint-venture enterprise in China. Over the years, the company developed over 90 brands of alcoholic beverages, and its products won numerous awards both domestically and abroad.

However, most of its products were exported abroad in the first two decades due to the low income of the local population, and it was not until after the year 2000 when the economic boom finally provided the domestic population with sufficient disposable income to support the domestic market; this relatively recent occurrence coincided with the increased popularity of French wine in China. Other companies, including China Great Wall Wine Co., Ltd, Suntime and Changyu, have also risen in prominence, and by 2005, 90% of grape wine produced was consumed locally.

Also, as globalization has brought China onto the international economic scene, so too has its winemaking industry come onto the international wine scene. China has a long tradition of the fermentation and distillation of Chinese wine, including all alcoholic beverages and not necessarily grape wine, but is one of the most recent participants in the globalization of wine that started years ago in Paris, when several countries such as Canada realized that they may be able to produce wines as good as most French wine.

Quite recently, Chinese grape wine has begun appearing on shelves in California and in Western Canada. While some critics have treated these wines with the same type of disregard with which Chilean and Australian wines were once treated, others have recognized a new frontier with the potential to yield some interesting finds. Others have simply taken notice that China is producing drinkable table wines comparable to wines from other countries. Among the latest developments is the production of organic wine in Inner Mongolia.

As of 2012, a small number of large companies, such as Changyu Pioneer Wine, China Great Wall Wine Co., Ltd. and the Dynasty Wine Ltd., dominate domestic production. The total production of wine in 2004 was 370 thousand tons, a 15% increase from the previous year. The total market grew 58% between 1996 and 2001, and 68% between 2001 and 2006.

In 2008, wine merchant Berry Brothers and Rudd predicted that within 50 years the quality of Chinese wine will rival that of Bordeaux.

Wine-producing regions

Notable wine-producing regions include Beijing, Yantai, Zhangjiakou in Hebei, Yibin in Sichuan, Tonghua in Jilin, Taiyuan in Shanxi, and Ningxia. The largest producing region is Yantai-Penglai; with over 140 wineries, it produces 40% of China's wine.

China's Xinjiang Autonomous Region have an ancient history of viticulture going back to around the 4th Century BC, when Greek settlers brought the vine and more advanced irrigation techniques.[citation needed] However new archeological evidence has shown this to be untrue, because China produced grape wine, rice wine, mead (honey wine) 9000 years ago (7000 BC). The area around Turfan was, and still is, particularly noted for its grape production, and production of grape wines is mentioned in the historical record as well; Marco Polo mentioned that Carachoco (the name he used for Turfan) produced fine grape wines. The modern wine industry is largely patterned after French methods with a concentration on varieties like Cabernet. However, the Uighur traditional technique has survived especially in counties surrounding Kashgar. The Uighur home-made wine generally called "museles" (from Arabic "المثلث ", meaning "the triangle") is still being brewed by households in many villages. Unlike wines west of Xinjiang, the brewing of museles requires crushing of local varieties of grapes by hand, then strained using the Uighur atlas silk, then boiled with amount of water equal to the juice and desired portion of sugar, until the volume of the mixture is down to the original volume of the juice, then stored in clay urns together with folk recipes varying by localities---in some counties, traditional Uighur herbal medicines, and goji, mulberries, sea-buckthorn, cloves, etc. in others, and even raw and unfeathered pheasants or poussin in others. The brew usually takes more than a month to accomplish. It is then un-urned, filtered and bottled to be stored for long periods. In some villages, the ritual of communally gathering a mixture of folk museles brews in a large village urn marks the occasion following the harvest and process of grapes. Museles is now being standardized by the wine producing industry in China and marketed under the brand-name of Merceles.

In September 2011, Ningxia winery Helan Qingxue won the Decanter World Wine Award's Red Bordeaux Varietal Over £10 International Trophy for its 2009 Jiabeilan, a Cabernet sauvignon blend. This win was widely considered an upset, with some wine experts even questioning the veracity of origin of the wine. On 14 December 2011 in Beijing, in a competition tagged "Bordeaux against Ningxia", experts from China and France blind-tasted five wines from each region. Four out of five of the top wines were from Ningxia. Emma Gao of Silver Heights Vineyard is one of the top winemakers in the region, her first vintage was praised by Chinese and international winemakers, and two of her red wines are among the best known produced in China.

In the "Bordeaux against Ningxia" wine challenge held in Beijing in October 2011, Grace Vineyard's 2009 Chairman's Reserve, a 100% Cabernet Sauvignon, was voted best.

Consumption

Market trends

China is among the top ten wine markets in the world. According to a study by Vinexpo and International Wine and Spirits Research (IWSR), China was the world's fifth-largest consumer of wine (both domestic and imported) in 2011. A study by the same organizations revealed in 2014 estimates that 2.17 billion bottles of wine were consumed in China in 2013, keeping China in fifth place. Because Chinese mostly drink red wine, China is now the world's largest market for red wine. China's consumption of red wine has grown by 136% since 2008, whereas it has declined by 18% in France, the second-largest consumer. The United States remains the largest market for all types of wine (red, white, rosé, and sparkling), with total sales of approximately 4 billion bottles, slightly ahead of France and followed by Italy and the United Kingdom.

The Chinese wine market has experienced a 20% annualized growth rate between 2006 and 2011, and is forecast to grow by another 54% by 2015.

In 2009, Sotheby's reported that Hong Kong had become the world's largest market for fine wines at auction, surpassing previous leaders New York City, and London.

Products and availability

Most medium to large restaurants, regardless of the fare, sell wine by the bottle, usually only red. Generally, only high-end restaurants serve wine by the glass. Wine sold by the bottle is also available at large KTV establishments, and major hotels.

Since around 2008, many small convenience stores have begun to carry a small selection of wines, with specialty wine shops emerging in cities throughout the country. These specialize in both foreign and domestic brands. Meanwhile, major supermarkets have steadily increased their selection, from several domestic brands, to a wide variety of wines from around the world. In addition, plenty varieties of wines are also available through online shops and platforms. Among these are sweetened, flavoured wines. These are made of a mixture of grape wine and a sweetened, flavoured drink similar to Kool-aid. These wines have similar labels to genuine wines, have an alcohol content of approximately 6%, and are much lower in price.

Demographics and preferences

A survey conducted with 1,440 respondents reveals that Chinese prefer red wine to white wine. 94% of the respondents consumed red wine, while only 35% of them drank white wine. This trend is, however, contrasting when measured among younger generations. Chinese young people prefer white to red wine and they consider the latter traditional and outdated.

Statistics show that the main market for white wine is among females, who prefer it over beer, still the main alcoholic beverage for most males; red wine has become a symbol of the elite and rich and is usually used as a table wine. In 2005, 80% of vineyards produce red wine and 20% of vineyards produce white wine, while 90% of wine consumed as of 2007 is red wine.

Method of consumption

Both red and white wines are commonly served chilled. The wine may be poured into ordinary wine glasses in tiny amounts, or very small, glass baijiu glasses. When served at a table with more than two people, similar to the style of drinking baijiu, it is typically consumed during a group toast, and often with the entire glass being finished at once. This is particularly true when served during restaurant meals.

See also

Wine portal

China portal

Baijiu

Chinese alcoholic beverages

Globalization of wine

Huangjiu

Kaoliang wine

Maotai

Tonghua Grape Wine

Zhuolu County

Winemaking

References

^ Jiang, H. (2009). "Evidence for early viticulture in China: Proof of a grapevine (Vitis vinifera L., Vitaceae) in the Yanghai tombs, Xinjiang". Journal of Archaeological Science. 36 (7): 1458–1465. Bibcode:2009JArSc..36.1458J. doi:10.1016/j.jas.2009.02.010. A stem was discovered in the Yanghai Tombs, Turpan District in Xinjiang, China. Anatomical features showed it to be of grape (Vitis vinifera L.). Radiocarbon dating indicates it to be nearly 2300 years old, which would suggest that there was grape cultivation at least from that time. To date, this is the earliest physical evidence of V. vinifera cultivation in China.(...) By the studying of the ancient grapevine, we have gained new insight into the viticulture in China. Based on the physical evidence, we have been able to confirm one of the conclusions drawn by Yang (2003), namely that the cultivated grape (V. vinifera) was introduced into Xinjiang around 300 BC. On the other hand, we would also argue that the earliest grape cultivation in China was not in the western and southern part of the Tarim Basin, but in the Turpan Basin, based on the evidence to date.

^ Sampson 1869, p. 52, cited in Shafer 1963, p. 145.

^ a b [1] Archived 2018-01-23 at the Wayback Machine. Prehistoric China - The Wonders That Were Jiahu The World's Earliest Fermented Beverage. Professor Patrick McGovern the Scientific Director of the Biomolecular Archaeology Project for Cuisine, Fermented Beverages, and Health at the University of Pennsylvania Museum in Philadelphia. Retrieved on 3 January 2017.

^ a b Castro-Sowinski, Susana (17 November 2016). Microbial Models: From Environmental to Industrial Sustainability. Springer. p. 42. ISBN 9789811025556.

^ a b Hames, Gina (2010). Alcohol in World History. Routledge. p. 17. ISBN 9781317548706.

^ "卷八百五十九:卷八百五十九". Chinese Text Project. Retrieved 6 August 2019.

^ Su, Xinchuan (2014). Chinese Lexical Semantics: 15th Workshop, CLSW 2014, Macao, China. Springer. p. 435. ISBN 978-3319143316. Retrieved 6 August 2019.

^ History of Chinese wine (in Chinese) Archived July 11, 2011, at the Wayback Machine

^ Sima 1993, pp. 244–45 ("The Han envoys brought back grape and alfalfa seeds to China and the emperor for the first time tried growing these plants in areas of rich soil. Later, when the Han acquired large numbers of the 'heavenly horses' and the envoys from foreign states began to arrive with their retinues, the lands on all sides of the emperor's summer palace and pleasure towers were planted with grapes and alfalfa as far as the eye could see." [Shiji, chap. 123]); Black 2006, p. 167 ("it seems that grape seeds were brought back from Ferghana in modern Uzbekistan by General Chang Chien [Zhang Qian] during the Han dynasty between 136 and 121 BC and planted in Xinjiang and Shaanxi (Xian)").

^ a b Huang 2000, p. 240.

^ Huang 2000, pp. 240–1, citing Tao Hongjing's Mingyi Bielu 名醫別錄 for the claim that vines were successfully grown in several parts of Gansu, notably in Dunhuang.

^ Huang 2000, p. 241.

^ Huang 2000, pp. 241–2.

^ Godley 1986, p. 383.

^ a b c Wine production in China - wines-info Archived November 27, 2007, at the Wayback Machine

^ Hansen bioWine Group. "Hansen BioWine from Inner Mongolia". Retrieved 16 May 2014.

^ Chen Jun (September 2003). "Who Can Change Chinese People's Consumption Patterns?". Wine Business Monthly. Retrieved 15 May 2014. (subscription required)

^ Chinese Markets for Wines - wines-info Archived November 27, 2007, at the Wayback Machine

^ a b Chinese Wine Marketing Conference Highlights Advantages & Issues in China's Wine Industry - wines-info Archived November 27, 2007, at the Wayback Machine

^ Oliver Styles (9 May 2008). "China to become leading wine producer?". Decanter.com. Retrieved 15 May 2014.

^ James Meikle (9 May 2008). "Chateau China, a taste of wines to come with climate change". The Guardian. London. Retrieved 16 May 2014.

^ "The wine output of Yantai will reach 230000 kiloliters in 2008:wines-info". Archived from the original on February 15, 2009. Retrieved June 28, 2009.

^ Odinsson, Eoghan (2010). Northern Lore: A Field Guide to the Northern Mind-Body-Spirit. Eoghan Odinsson. p. 159. ISBN 9781452851433.

^ "Chinese wine wins top honour at Decanter World Wine Awards - Decanter". Decanter. 2011-09-08. Retrieved 2017-08-30.

^ "Decanter magazine and Jia Bei Lan 2009: Was it really Chinese wine?". Grape Wall of China. 2011-10-30. Retrieved 2017-08-30.

^ "Let's raise a glass to China's wine". Telegraph.co.uk. Retrieved 2017-08-30.

^ esperegus (2011-05-23). "Chinese Wines Triumph in Decanter Awards". www.thebeijinger.com. Retrieved 2017-08-30.

^ "Wine advances on China". www.jancisrobinson.com. 19 November 2011. Retrieved 2017-08-30.

^ "Silver Heights Wine - The Rise Of Chinese Wines". On The Gas | The Art Science & Culture of Food. 2013-03-19. Retrieved 2017-08-30.

^ Laurie Burkitt (15 December 2011). "Ningxia Beats Bordeaux. Or Does It?". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 16 December 2011.

^ a b Alexander, Patrick (2017). The Booklovers' Guide To Wine: A Celebration of the History, the Mysteries and the Literary Pleasures of Drinking Wine. Mango Media Inc. ISBN 9781633536074.

^ "Q&A: Emma Gao, winemaker-director, Silver Heights - Harpers Wine & Spirit Trade News". harpers.co.uk. Retrieved 2022-02-18.

^ "Top 10 most influential women in China's wine trade". The Drinks Business. 2019-03-08. Retrieved 2022-02-17.

^ "About Grace Vineyard". Grace Vineyard. Archived from the original on 30 December 2016. Retrieved 30 December 2016.

^ a b Alan Lodge (11 January 2012). "US Tops Global Wine Consumption Chart". the drinks business. Retrieved 15 May 2014.

^ a b Jason Chow (29 January 2014). "China is now World's Biggest Consumer of Red Wine". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 16 May 2014.

^ Gabriel Savage (28 January 2014). "China Leaps Into Top Spot for Red Wine". the drinks business.

^ Malcolm Moore (6 October 2009). "Hong Kong becomes world's largest wine market". The Daily Telegraph. London. Retrieved 16 May 2014.

^ Poon, C H (26 November 2020). "China's Wine and Spirits Market (1): Wine Consumption Trends and Habits". HKTDC Research.

^ Capitello, Roberta; Charters, Steve; Menival, David; Yuan, Jingxue (Jessica) (2017). The Wine Value Chain in China. Elsevier Ltd. pp. 63–79. ISBN 978-0-08-100754-9.

Works cited

Black, Jeremy (2006), "China – Ancient China", in Robinson, Jancis (ed.), The Oxford Companion to Wine (3rd ed.), Oxford: Oxford University Press, pp. 167–68, ISBN 978-0-19-860990-2.

Godley, Michael R. (1986), "Bacchus in the East: The Chinese Grape Wine Industry, 1892–1938", Business History Review, 60 (3): 383–409, doi:10.2307/3115883, JSTOR 3115883, S2CID 155074079. (registration required)

Huang, H. T. (2000), Science & Civilisation in China, Volume VI: Biology and Biological Technology, Part 5: Fermentations and Food Science, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0-521-65270-7.

Sampson, Theos. (1869), "The Song of the Grape", Notes and Queries on China and Japan, 3: 52.

Shafer, Edward H. (1963), The Golden Peaches of Samarkand: A Study of T'ang Exotics, Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, ISBN 0-520-05462-8. {{citation}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help)

Sima, Qian (1993) [100 BC], Records of the Grand Historian, Han Dynasty II, Translated by Burton Watson (revised ed.), New York: Columbia University Press, ISBN 0-231-08166-9. ISBN 978-0-231-08167-2 (paperback).

Wang, Janet (2019). The Chinese Wine Renaissance (1st ed.). Ebury. pp. 5–249. ISBN 9781529103601.

Further reading

Insel, Barbara (January 2014). "The Evolving Global Wine Market". Business Economics. 49 (1): 46–58. doi:10.1057/be.2014.3. S2CID 153516479.

Taber, George M. (2011). A toast to bargain wines: How innovators, iconoclasts, and winemaking revolutionaries are changing the way the world drinks. New York: Scribner. ISBN 978-1-4516-4436-4. ISBN 978-1-4391-9518-5 (paperback).

External links

http://www.ice.gov.it/paesi/asia/cina/upload/174/Chinese%20wine%20report%202010.pdf Archived 2011-07-22 at the Wayback Machine

Jiao [zh]

Zhi [zh]

Por [zh]

Rice wine cup

Baijiu (Erguotou • Kaoliang • Maotai • Mixiang Baijiu)

Changyu Brandy

Guihua Chenjiu

Beijing Hongxing

Guizhou Dongjiu [zh]

Gujing Gongjiu [zh]

Hengshui Laobaigan [zh]

Jiangsu Shuanggou [zh]

Jiannanchun [zh]

Jiuguijiu [zh]

Kweichow Moutai

Langjiu [zh]

Luzhou Laojiao

Niulanshan Distillery

Shede [zh]

Wuliangye

Xifengjiu

Xinghuacun Fenjiu

Yanghe

Yingjia [zh]

Gouqijiu

Huangjiu (Chengangjiu [zh] • Shaoxingjiu • Huadiao • Liaojiu • Xionghuangjiu)

Lizhijiu

Mijiu (Choujiu)

Putaojiu (Museles • Ningxia)

Beijing

Changyu Pioneer Wine

CR Snow

Great Leap Brewing

Great Wall Wine

Harbin Brewery

Cheerday

Kingway Brewery

Lhasa Brewery

Lucky Buddha Beer

San Miguel Brewery

Shangri-La Brewery

Tsingtao Brewery

Yanjing Brewery

Zhujiang Brewery

Annual growth cycle of grapevines

Oenology

Species

Terroir

Veraison

Vineyard

Ancient Phoenicians Ancient Greece Ancient Rome China Noah's wine

Phoenicians

Ancient Greece

Ancient Rome

Noah's wine

Armenia

France Great French Wine Blight

Great French Wine Blight

Georgia

New World Judgment of Paris

Judgment of Paris

Sparkling

Orange

Dessert Fortified Ice Aromatized Fruit Noble rot Straw

Fortified

Aromatized

Noble rot

Other Table Natural Biodynamic Organic Kosher

Natural

Biodynamic

Organic

Kosher

Aligoté

Catarratto

Cayetana blanca

Chardonnay

Chenin blanc

Colombard

Grüner Veltliner

Macabeo

Müller-Thurgau

Muscat blanc

Muscat of Alexandria

Palomino

Riesling

Rkatsiteli

Sauvignon blanc

Sémillon

Trebbiano

Welschriesling

Alicante Bouschet

Barbera

Cabernet Franc

Cabernet Sauvignon

Carignan

Cinsaut

Douce noir

Grenache

Isabella

Malbec

Merlot

Montepulciano

Mourvèdre

Pinot noir

Sangiovese

Tempranillo

Zinfandel

Old World

New World

Alternative wine closure

Box wine

Corkscrew

Decanter

Jug wine

Kvevri

Muselet

Port tongs

Screw cap

Wine bottle

Wine cave

Wine cellar

Wine cork

Wine dispenser

Wine glass

Wine label

Wine rack

Aroma of wine

Acids in wine

Phenolic content in wine

Proteins in wine

Sugars in wine

Classification

Oenophilia

Sommelier

Wine and food pairing

Wine fault

Wine fraud

Winemaker

Wine personalities

Wine tasting

Wine tasting descriptors

Wine portal

Outline

Glossary

Late harvest wine

Noble rot

Vintage

Deacidification

Destemming

Chaptalization

Wine press

Carbonic maceration

Malolactic fermentation

Sparkling wine production

Sugars in wine

Süssreserve

Traditional method

Yeast assimilable nitrogen

Yeast in winemaking

Solera

Wine cellar

Clarification and stabilization of wine

Winery

Wine bottle

Glossary of viticulture terms

Glossary of winemaking terms

Wine tasting descriptors

History of the wine press

History of wine

Terroir

Algeria

Ethiopia

Morocco

Namibia

South Africa

Tanzania

Tunisia

Abkhazia

Armenia

Azerbaijan

Bhutan

Israel

Jordan

Kazakhstan

Lebanon

Palestine

Philippines

Taiwan

Thailand

Turkey

Vietnam

Albania

Austria

Belgium

Bosnia and Herzegovina

Bulgaria

Croatia

Cyprus

Czech Republic

Denmark

France

Georgia

Germany

Greece

Hungary

Ireland

Liechtenstein

Luxembourg

Moldova

Montenegro

North Macedonia

Netherlands

Poland

Portugal

Romania

Russia

San Marino

Serbia

Slovakia

Slovenia

Sweden

Switzerland

Ukraine

United Kingdom

Canada

Mexico

United States

Australia

New Zealand

Argentina

Bolivia

Brazil

Paraguay

Uruguay

United States

Israel

Yale LUX

# Char siu


Cookbook: Char siu

Media: Char siu

Char siu (Chinese: 叉燒; lit. 'fork roasted') is a Cantonese-style barbecued pork. Originating in Guangdong, it can be eaten with rice, or used as an ingredient for other dishes.

It is classified as a type of siu mei (燒味), Cantonese roasted meat.

Meat cuts

Pork cuts used for char siu can vary, but a few main cuts are common:

Pork loin

Pork belly – produces juicy and fattier char siu

Pork butt (shoulder) – produces leaner char siu

Pork fat

Pork neck end – very marbled (jyu geng yuk)

Cultural variations

Cantonese cuisine

In ancient times, wild boar and other available meats were used to make char siu. However, in modern times, the meat is typically a shoulder cut of domestic pork, seasoned with a mixture of maltose, Chinese rose wine and five-spice powder, along with a selection of other ingredients. These seasonings turn the exterior layer of the meat dark red, similar to the "smoke ring" of American barbecues. Maltose may be used to give char siu its characteristic shiny glaze.

Char siu is one of the most iconic dishes of Cantonese cuisine. It is typically consumed with a starch as a main dish, whether with noodles (chasiu min, 叉燒麵), with rice (chasiu faan, 叉燒飯), or served alone as a main dish in traditional family meals. Beyond these pairings, char siu is also a beloved filling in Cantonese dim sum, inside a bun (cha siu bao, 叉燒包),, or inside cheung fun as (chasiu cheong, 叉燒腸). It is even paired with pastry items like pineapple buns or puffs as (chasiu sou, 叉燒酥).

The ovens used to roast char siu are usually large gas rotisseries. Since ovens are not standard in Hong Kong households, char siu is usually purchased from a siu mei establishment, which specialises in meat dishes such as char siu, soy sauce chicken, white cut chicken, roasted goose, and roasted pork. These shops usually display the merchandise by hanging them in the window.

Southeast Asian cuisine

In Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Cambodia, Thailand, and Vietnam, char siew rice is found in many Chinese shāolà (燒臘 or 烧腊) stalls along with roast duck and roast pork. The dish consists of slices of char siu, cucumbers, and white rice, drenched in sweet gravy or drizzled with dark soy sauce. Char siu rice is also a well-known food within the Chinese community in Medan, North Sumatra, where it is more often called char sio.

In Singapore, char siew rice can also be found in Hainanese chicken rice stalls, where customers have a choice of plain white rice or chicken-flavoured rice served with their char siu rice, and choose from garlic, chilli and soy sauces.

In Thailand, char siu is called mu daeng (Thai: หมูแดง, pronounced [mǔː dɛ̄ːŋ], "red pork") and in Cambodia it is called sach chrouk sa seev (Khmer: សាច់ជ្រូកសាស៉ីវ, sac cruuk sa səyv).

In the Philippines, it is known as Chinese pork asado, but also referred to as cha siu. It is usually eaten with cold cuts or served stuffed in siopao.

In Flanders and Holland, it is sometimes mistaken for the Chinese/Indonesian name 'babi panggang'. This is a different dish (mostly sweeter and served with yellow pickled Chinese cabbage, called atjar). These Chinese/Indonesian restaurants also sometimes serve cha(r) sieuw under the original name.[citation needed]

Japanese cuisine

Japanese cuisine has adapted 叉燒 as chāshū (チャーシュー). Unlike its Cantonese variant, it is not roasted, but prepared by rolling pork belly into a log and then braising it at a low temperature. This type of braising is a Chinese technique known as red cooking, which imparts a reddish-brown coloration. The Japanese adaptation is typically seasoned with soy sauce, sake, mirin and sugar or other sweetener, without the red food colouring or five-spice powder that characterize char siu. It is a typical ingredient for toppings in rāmen.

United Kingdom cuisine

Char siu is the main ingredient in jar jow, a once-common stir-fry dish from East London.

Gallery

Char siu rice

Char siu bao

Char siu cheung fun (rice noodle rolls)

Japanese bento with chāshū

See also

Food portal

China portal

Indonesia portal

Malaysia portal

Singapore portal

Thailand portal

List of pork dishes

Lou mei

References

^ a b c AsianCookingMom (6 June 2020). "Japanese Chashu Pork". Asian Cooking Mom. Retrieved 18 October 2022.

^ klyeoh (May 2023). "[Singapore] "Char siew" (Cantonese-style caramelised BBQ pork) at Fook Kin, Killiney Road". Hungry Onion. Archived from the original on 8 January 2026. Retrieved 8 January 2026.

^ a b "Chinese BBQ pork (char siu) 蜜汁叉燒". Graceful Cuisine. 7 January 2012. Archived from the original on 2 February 2013. Retrieved 9 February 2013.

^ "The Ultimate Chinese Barbecue Guide". The Manual. 8 June 2021. Retrieved 26 September 2021.

^ a b Deutsch, Jonathan; Elias, Megan J. (15 April 2014). Barbecue: A Global History. Reaktion Books. p. 52. ISBN 978-1-78023-298-0.

^ Sinclair, Charles Gordon (1998). International Dictionary of Food and Cooking. Taylor & Francis. p. 115. ISBN 978-1-57958-057-5.

^ Lui, Mabel (18 July 2025). "What is cheung fun? Types, history and how to make Chinese rice noodle rolls". South China Morning Post.

^ De Leon, Adrian (1 May 2016). "Siopao and Power: The Place of Pork Buns in Manila's Chinese History". Gastronomica. 16 (2): 45–54. doi:10.1525/gfc.2016.16.2.45. ISSN 1529-3262.

^ Jimura, Takamitsu (16 August 2021). Cultural Heritage and Tourism in Japan. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-429-67163-0.

^ Dunlop, Fuchsia (19 March 2021). "How the British-Chinese takeaway took off". Financial Times. Retrieved 7 September 2025.

Barbacoa

Char siu

Churrasco

Indirect grilling

Inihaw

Korean barbecue

Mangal

Mixed grill

Mongolian barbecue

Schwenker

Shaokao

Shisa nyama

Siu mei

Yakiniku

United States Chicago Kansas City Memphis North Carolina Santa Maria South Carolina St. Louis Texas

Chicago

Kansas City

Memphis

North Carolina

Santa Maria

South Carolina

St. Louis

Barbecue grill

Barrel barbecue

Buccan

Charbroiler

Chimney starter

Disposable grill

Flattop grill

Gridiron

Grilling

Hibachi

Kamado

Pit barbecue

Shichirin

Smoking (Smoke ring)

List of barbecue dishes

List of smoked foods

Anticuchos

Arrosticini

Bakkwa

Barbecue chicken

Barbecue sandwich

Barbecue sauce

Brochette

Bulgogi

Bull roast

Burnt ends

Cha siu bao

Churrasco

Cocoloși

Corn on the cob

Espetada

Fatányéros

Frigărui

Galinha à africana

Jujeh kabab

Kabab barg

Kai yang

Khorkhog

Khorovats Karsi khorovats Khazani khorovats

Karsi khorovats

Khazani khorovats

Kofte kebab

Méchoui

Meurav Yerushalmi

Mixiote

Mookata

Mućkalica

Mu ping

Neobiani

Pig pickin'

Pig roast

Pinchitos

Provoleta

Pulled pork

Ražnjići

Red slaw

Ribs Beef Short ribs Pork Spare ribs

Beef Short ribs

Short ribs

Spare ribs

Sausage sizzle

Shashlik

Shish kebab

Shish taouk

Sosatie

Souvlaki

Suckling pig

Texas smoked brisket

Tsukune

Whole hog barbecue

Yakitori

Australasian Barbecue Alliance

Big Pig Jig

International Bar-B-Q Festival

Kansas City Barbeque Society

Khorovats Festival

Leskovac Grill Festival

Lexington Barbecue Festival

Memphis in May

North Carolina Barbecue Society

Roanoke-Chowan Pork-Fest

Barbecue restaurant List

Churrascaria

Food portal

Category

Commons

WikiProject Food and drink

Bao yu

Bird's nest soup

Buddha's delight

Cantonese seafood soup

Chinese steamed eggs

Congee

Crispy fried chicken

Dragon tiger phoenix

Egg foo young

Eight treasure duck

Eight treasure rice

Hot pot

Lemon chicken

Pork knuckles and ginger stew

Seafood birdsnest

Shark fin soup

Snake bite chicken

Soy sauce chicken

Steam minced pork

Subgum

Suckling pig

Sweet and sour pork

White boiled shrimp

White cut chicken

Wonton noodles

Yangzhou fried rice

Almond tofu

Beef tripe

Cha siu bao

Chicken feet

Coconut bar

Har gow

Jian dui

Jiaozi

Lo mai gai

Lotus seed bun

Nian gao

Ox-tongue pastry

Rice noodle roll

Shumai

Spring roll

Steamed meatball

Swiss wing

Taro cake

Taro dumpling

Tendon

Tofu skin roll

Turnip cake

Water chestnut cake

Yau gok

Youtiao

Zhaliang

Char siu

Chinese sausage

Lou mei

Orange cuttlefish

Roast goose

Siu mei

Siu yuk

White cut chicken

Almond biscuit

Biscuit roll

Deuk Deuk Tong

Douhua

Ginger milk curd

Lo mai chi

Malay sponge cake

Mooncake

Red bean cake

Red bean soup

Sausage bun

Snow skin mooncake

Tang bu shuai

Tong sui

White sugar sponge cake

Fermented bean curd

Five-spice powder

XO sauce

Beef ball

Black bean paste

Chenpi

Conpoy

Fermented black beans

Fish ball

Fishcake

Frog legs

Garland chrysanthemum

Kai-lan

Mantis shrimp

Ong choy

Pig blood curd

Pig's ear

Rapeseed

Saang mein

Sea cucumbers

Shahe fen

Shrimp roe noodles

Spare ribs

Suan cai

Tofu skin

Wonton

Yi mein

Youmian

Zha cai

Chinese herb tea

Dried shredded squid

Lou fo tong

Cantonese restaurant

Beijing cuisine

Shanghai cuisine

Hong Kong cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Ayam bakar

Ayam goreng

Ayam kecap

Ayam kodok

Bakpau

Bakwan

Bihun goreng

Bubur ayam

Bubur kacang hijau

Bubur ketan hitam

Bubur sumsum

Gado-gado

Gorengan

Ikan asin

Ikan bakar

Ikan goreng

Jagung rebus

Kacang rebus

Kari Kari ayam Kari domba Kari kambing Kari udang

Kari ayam

Kari domba

Kari kambing

Kari udang

Ketupat

Lontong

Macaroni schotel

Martabak

Mi bakso

Mi goreng

Mi kuah

Nasi campur

Nasi goreng

Nasi kari

Nasi kuning

Nasi bakar

Otak-otak

Panekuk

Pastel tutup

Perkedel

Perkedel jagung

Pindang

Rendang

Rijsttafel

Roti bakar

Roti bolen

Roti meses

Sambal

Sambal goreng udang

Sayur bayam

Sayur sop

Serundeng

Sop buntut

Soto Soto ayam Soto mi

Soto ayam

Soto mi

Sup ayam

Sup ercis

Sup makaroni

Sup wortel

Tahu goreng

Telur asin

Telur pindang

Tempeh

Tumis kangkung

Tumpeng

Ayam Tangkap

Kanji asyura

Keukarah

Keumamah

Meuseukat

Mi aceh

Mi caluk

Nasi gurih

Roti Jala

Sate matang

Sie Reuboh

Falafel

Hummus

Manakish

Katayef

Nasi kabsah

Nasi kebuli

Nasi mandi

Maamoul

Murtabak

Roti maryam

Roti pita

Saltah

Shawarma

Tabbouleh

Tharid

Babi guling

Betutu

Be urutan

Iga babi

Laklak

Nasi bali

Nasi jinggo

Pai susu

Rawon babi

Rujak kuah pindang

Sate babi

Sate lilit

Soto babi

Tipat cantok

Bingka

Laksa banjar

Pekasam

Pundut Nasi

Soto banjar

Angeun Lada

Babi panggang Karo

Dali ni horbo

Dengke mas na niura

Itak gurgur

Lampet

Manuk napinadar

Mi gomak

Na tinombur

Ombusombus

Pagit-pagit

Pohulpohul

Saksang

Sasagun

Sate kerang

Tipatipa

Tuktuk

Asinan betawi

Bubur cha cha

Kerak telor

Ketoprak

Ketupat sayur

Laksa betawi

Lontong sayur

Mi kangkung

Nasi goreng kambing

Nasi kebuli

Nasi uduk

Nasi ulam

Pindang

Roti buaya

Roti gambang

Rujak juhi

Sate taichan

Sayur asem

Semur jengkol

Soto betawi

Soto kaki

Soto tangkar

Sup kambing

Ayam goreng Sulawesi

Burasa

Coto makassar

Dangke

Jalangkote

Kaledo

Kapurung

Mi kering

Pallubasa

Sop saudara

Babi hong

Babi kecap

Bak kut teh

Bakkwa

Bakwan

Banmian

Bihun goreng

Cap cai

Chai tow kway

Char kway teow

Cha sio

Fu yung hai

Fish ball

Haisom cah

Kembang tahu

Kepiting saus tiram

Kwetiau ayam

Kwetiau goreng

Kwetiau siram sapi

Lapchiong

Locupan

Lontong cap go meh

Lumpia

Mi ayam

Mi lor

Mi pangsit

Mi tarik

Mun tahu

Nasi ayam hainan

Nasi bebek

Nasi campur

Nasi tim

Ngo hiang

Pangsit

Popiah

Rujak shanghai

Sapo tahu

Sate babi

Siomay

Sup hisit

Sup sarang burung

Swikee

Tahu sumedang

Tauge ayam

Tee long pan

Telur pitan

Telur teh

Tong sui

Yong tau fu

Yusheng

Empal gentong

Docang

Kue gapit

Mi koclok

Nasi jamblang

Nasi lengko

Tahu gejrot

Binte biluhuta

Sate Tuna

Ayam iloni

Sagela

Bilentango

Sate Balanga

Ilabulo

Nasi kuning cakalang

Buburu

Bubur sagela

Nasi goreng sagela

Tabu Moitomo

Ikan iloni

Pilitode

Ayam mentega

Ayam tandori

Chapati

Chutney

Kari kambing

Kari kepala ikan

Nasi biryani

Pakora

Roti canai

Satti Sorru

Sambar

Samosa

Satti Sorru

Ayam kodok

Babi panggang

Bitterballen

Erwtensoep

Hutspot

Lapis legit

Makaroni schotel

Oliebol

Ontbijtkoek

Pannenkoek

Poffertjes

Shepherd's pie

Arem-arem

Ayam bumbu rujak

Ayam geprek

Ayam goreng kalasan

Ayam penyet

Bakpia Bakpia pathok

Bakpia pathok

Brongkos

Buntil

Iga penyet

Kelan antep

Krechek

Kuluban

Lontong balap

Lontong dekem

Lontong kupang

Lumpia Lumpia goreng Lumpia semarang Sumpia

Lumpia goreng

Lumpia semarang

Sumpia

Mendoan

Mi bakso

Mi goreng

Mi jawa

Mi rebus

Nasi ambeng

Nasi bebek

Nasi bogana

Nasi empal

Nasi gandul

Nasi goreng Nasi goreng jawa

Nasi goreng jawa

Nasi kare

Nasi kucing

Nasi liwet

Nasi megono

Nasi pecel

Nasi tempong

Opor Opor ayam

Opor ayam

Orem-orem

Pecel ayam

Pecel lele

Rambak petis

Roti ganjel rel

Roti konde

Rujak cingur

Rujak soto

Sambal ulek

Sate ambal

Sate blora

Sate kambing

Sate hati

Sate kelinci

Sate kikil

Sate klatak

Sate madura

Sate ponorogo

Sate tegal

Sate udang

Sayur lodeh

Selat solo

Serundeng

Soto babat

Soto ceker

Tahu campur

Telur pindang

Tempe bacem

Tempe goreng

Tempe mendoan

Tongseng

Trancam

Tumpeng

Rujak Rujak cingur

Rujak cingur

Sate madura

Serundeng

Soto madura

Amplang

Ayam goreng

Ayam pansuh

Bubur cha cha

Bubur pedas

Cincalok

Epok-epok

Ikan bakar

Ikan patin

Kangkung belacan

Kemplang

Mi kari

Mi rebus

Nasi berlauk

Nasi briyani

Nasi dagang

Nasi goreng Nasi goreng pattaya

Nasi goreng pattaya

Nasi lemak

Nasi minyak

Otak-otak

Pekasam

Roti canai

Roti jala

Roti john

Roti tisu

Sayur lodeh

Siput gonggong

Sup kambing

Tahu goreng

Tempoyak

Ayam rica-rica

Brenebon

Cakalang fufu

Dabu-dabu

Klappertaart

Mi cakalang

Nasi kuning

Panada

Paniki

Rica-rica

Rintek wuuk

Tinorangsak

Tinutuan

Asam pedas

Ayam pop

Balado

Daun ubi tumbuk

Dendeng

Gulai Gulai ayam Gulai kambing Gulai otak

Gulai ayam

Gulai kambing

Gulai otak

Kepiting saus padang

Keripik sanjai

Lemang

Lontong gulai pakis

Nasi kapau

Nasi kari

Nasi padang

Palai bada

Rendang

Sambal lada muda

Sate padang

Soto padang

Udang balado

Babi bakar

Bibingka

Colo-colo

Papeda

Puding sagu

Soto ambon

Kemplang

Laksan

Mi celor

Nasi minyak

Otak-otak

Pempek

Pindang

Tekwan

Tempoyak ikan patin

Bubur cha cha

Cincalok

Pai ti

Swikee

Ayam taliwang

Plecing kangkung

Sate ampet

Sate belut

Sate pusut

Asinan bogor

Batagor

Empal gepuk

Karedok

Kupat tahu

Laksa bogor

Laksa tangerang

Mi kocok

Nasi timbel

Nasi tutug oncom

Rujak tumbuk

Sate bandeng

Sate maranggi

Sayur asem

Seblak

Soto bandung

Tauge goreng

Uli bakar

Feijoada

Ikan bakar

Katemak

Pastel de nata

Amplang

Emping

Kemplang

Krupuk Krupuk ikan Krupuk kulit Krupuk udang

Krupuk ikan

Krupuk kulit

Krupuk udang

Kripik Kripik sanjai

Kripik sanjai

Rempeyek

Rengginang

Agar-agar

Arem-arem

Bahulu

Bakcang

Bakpau

Bakpia Bakpia pathok

Bakpia pathok

Bangkit

Bibingka

Bika ambon

Bingka

Bitterballen

Bolu gulung

Bolu kukus

Bolu pandan

Meuseukat

Clorot

Dadar gulung

Donat jawa

Donat kentang

Geplak

Gethuk

Jalangkote

Jemput-jemput

Kaasstengels

Karipap

Kembang goyang

Keranjang

Klappertaart

Klepon

Kroket

Kukis jagung

Laklak

Lapis legit

Lemper

Lidah kucing

Lumpia Lumpia goreng Lumpia semarang Sumpia

Lumpia goreng

Lumpia semarang

Sumpia

Madumongso

Makmur

Martabak

Mangkok

Nagasari

Nastar

Ombusombus

Onde-onde

Pai susu

Pai ti

Panada

Pancong

Pastel

Pastel de nata

Pinyaram

Pisang cokelat

Pisang goreng

Poffertjes

Popiah

Putri salju

Putu mangkok

Putu mayang

Rempah udang

Risoles

Samosa

Semar mendem

Semprit

Semprong

Serabi

Seri muka

Spekulaas

Stroopwafel

Timphan

Terang bulan

Untir-untir

Wingko

Cap tikus

Saguer

Adon-adon coro

Angsle

Bajigur

Bandrek

Bir jawa

Bir kocok

Bir pletok

Cendol

Chocolate milk

Cincau

Dadiah

Es asam jawa

Es buah

Es campur

Es doger

Es durian

Es goyobod

Es kelapa muda

Es kopyor

Es selendang mayang

Es tebak

Es tebu

Es teler

Hot chocolate

Jahe telur

Java coffee

Kembang tahu

Kopi aceh

Kopi gayo

Kopi luwak

Kopi sanger

Kopi susu

Kopi tarik

Kopi tiam

Kopi tubruk

Lahang

Laksamana mengamuk

Sarsi Badak Indo saparelle

Indo saparelle

Sekoteng

Soda gembira

Susu kedelai

Sweet tea

Teh botol

Teh krisan

Teh liang

Teh poci

Teh jahe

Teh tarik

Teh talua

Wedang jahe

Wedang uwuh

Adas manis

Andaliman

Asam jawa

Bawang bombai

Bawang merah

Bawang perei

Bawang putih

Bunga lawang

Bunga pala

Cabai rawit

Cabai merah

Cengkih

Daun bawang

Daun jeruk

Daun kari

Daun kemangi

Daun pandan

Daun salam

Jeruk purut

Jeruk nipis

Jintan

Kapulaga

Kayu manis

Kecombrang

Kencur

Kemiri

Ketumbar

Keluak

Kunyit

Lengkuas

Lada hitam

Lada putih

Peterseli

Seledri

Temu kunci

Temu lawak

Balado

Bawang goreng

Coconut jam

Dabu-dabu

Hagelslag

Kecap asin

Kecap ikan

Kecap inggris

Kecap manis

Kerisik

Mayones

Minyak samin

Minyak wijen

Minyak zaitun

Moster

Muisjes

Nata de coco

Peanut sauce

Petis ikan

Rica-rica

Sambal

Sambal goreng teri

Serundeng

Saus tiram

Saus tomat

Tempoyak

Terasi

Tongcai

Tuktuk

Vlokken

Asam pedas

Ayam penyet

Babi pangang

Bamischijf

Begedil

Biryani

Bobotie

Bobotok

Boeber

Dendeng

Kalu dodol

Koe'sister

Lumpia

Martabak

Mie bangladesh

Mie goreng

Mie rebus

Nasi ambeng

Nasi goreng

Nasi kuning

Nasischijf

Pechal

Pisang goreng

Rendang

Roti canai

Sayur lodeh

Serundeng

Sosatie

Telur pindang

Tempeh

Tomato bredie

Indonesian beverages

Indonesian condiments

Indonesian desserts

Indonesian dishes

Indonesian noodles

Indonesian snacks

Indonesian soups

List of Indonesian dishes

Alcohol in Indonesia

Bumbu (seasoning)

Street food of Indonesia Jajan pasar

Jajan pasar

Sri Owen

Nunuk Nuraini

Category: Indonesian cuisine

Singaporean cuisine

List of Singaporean dishes

Banmian

Beef kway teow

Beef noodle soup

Bee hoon goreng

Char kway teow

Crab bee hoon

Fish soup bee hoon

Hokkien mee

Laksa Katong laksa

Katong laksa

Kway chap

Kway teow goreng

Mee bakso

Mee goreng

Mee rebus

Mee pok Bak chor mee

Bak chor mee

Mee siam

Mee soto

Satay bee hoon

Vegetarian bee hoon

Biryani

Duck rice

Economy rice

Hainanese chicken rice

Hainanese curry rice

Ketupat

Nasi goreng

Nasi kunyit

Nasi lemak

Nasi padang

Nasi Rawon

Teochew porridge

Assam pedas

Ayam goreng

Ayam penyet

Bak kut teh

Black pepper crab

Chai tow kway

Char siu

Chilli crab

Dendeng paru

Fish head curry

Fish ball

Gudeg putih

Gulai daun ubi

Har cheong gai

Kerisik

Oyster omelette

Pecel lele

Pig fallopian tubes

Pig's organ soup

Rojak bandung

Roti john

Roti prata

Sambal

Sayur lodeh

Serunding

Sliced fish soup

Soto ayam

Soup kambing

Turtle soup

Ais kacang

Apam balik

Bubur cha cha

Cendol

Cheng tng

Curry puff

Ham chim peng

Kaya toast (Roti bakar)

Keropok

Kueh Laddu Lepat Modak Red peach cake Soon kueh

Red peach cake

Soon kueh

Otak-otak

Pisang goreng

Putugal

Sugee cake

Satti Sorru

Bandung

Milo dinosaur

Singapore Sling

Teh tarik

Asam pedas

Ayam bakar

Ayam goreng

Ayam masak kicap

Ayam masak merah

Ayam penyet

Bubur Bubur asyura Bubur ayam Bubur kacang hijau Bubur lambuk Bubur pedas Bubur pulut hitam

Bubur asyura

Bubur ayam

Bubur kacang hijau

Bubur lambuk

Bubur pedas

Bubur pulut hitam

Dendeng

Ikan bakar

Ikan goreng

Kangkung belacan

Ketupat

Kway teow goreng

Lemang

Lontong

Masak lemak lada api

Mee bakso

Mee bandung Muar

Mee goreng

Mee jawa

Curry mee

Mee rebus

Mee siam

Nasi ambeng

Nasi campur

Nasi dagang

Nasi goreng American fried rice Nasi goreng pattaya

American fried rice

Nasi goreng pattaya

Nasi katok

Nasi kerabu

Nasi kuning

Nasi lemak

Nasi minyak

Nasi paprik

Nasi tumpang

Nasi ulam

Otak-otak

Pekasam

Pindang

Pulot tartal

Ramly burger

Roti canai

Roti Jala

Rendang

Rojak Rojak bandung

Rojak bandung

Sayur lodeh

Satay Satay celup

Satay celup

Serundeng

Soto Soto ayam Mee soto

Soto ayam

Mee soto

Sup Soup kambing Sup tulang

Soup kambing

Sup tulang

Tauhu goreng

Telur pindang

Tongmo

Bakkwa

Bak kut teh

Banmian

Bean sprouts chicken

Beef kway teow

Chai tow kway

Char kway teow

Char siu Cha siu bao

Cha siu bao

Chee cheong fun

Chicken chop

Chwee kueh

Claypot chicken rice

Curry Mee

Duck rice

Duck soup noodles

Economy rice/Mixed rice

Egg tart

Fish ball

Fish head bee hoon

Hae mee

Hainanese chicken rice

Heong Peng

Hokkien mee

Kolo mee

Kway chap

Kway Teow Th'ng

Lei cha

Lo mai gai

Loh bak

Lor mee

Mee pok

Oyster omelette

Pan mee

Popiah

Sar Hor Fun

Lou Shee Fun

Teochew Porridge

Tong sui

Wonton mee

Tambun biscuit

Yee Foo Mee

Yong tau foo

You char kway

Yusheng

Zongzi

Banana leaf rice

Butter chicken

Dalcha

Puliyodarai

Curd rice

Chapati

Fish molee

Mee goreng Maggi goreng Mee goreng mamak

Maggi goreng

Mee goreng mamak

Mee rebus

Mamak Rojak (Rojak Klang)

Murtabak

Mutton curry

Nasi biryani

Nasi kandar

Pasembur

Putu mayam

Roti canai

Roti tissue

Sup kambing

Satti Sorru

Payasam

Paniyaram

Pongal

Adhirasam

Murukku

Sambar

Papadum

Tandoori chicken

Ambuyat

Hinava

Linatan

Linongot

Manok pansoh

Mee tauhu

Nasi kombos

Nasi laru

Nasik aruk

Sinalau bakas

Tonokon

Asam laksa/Laksa lemak

Buah keluak

Bubur cha cha

Cap cai

Kerabu Bihun

Perut Ikan

Pie tee

Pongteh

Nyonya Bak Chang

Shepherd's pie

Oxtail stew

Chicken chop

Devil's curry

Bahulu

Batik cake

Heong peng

Roti bakar (Kaya toast)

Sarawak layer cake

Amplang

Rempeyek

Mee Siput Muar

Apam balik

Bingka

Borasa

Cincin

Cucur Jemput-jemput Penyaram Pisang goreng

Jemput-jemput

Penyaram

Pisang goreng

Jelurut

Karipap

Kelupis

Gelang

Kue kembang goyang

Gulung

Makmur

Mooncake

Ondeh-ondeh

Otokon

Red peach cake

Red tortoise cake

Pie tee

Pulut inti

Pulut panggang

Puto Putu bambu/Putu bumbong Putu mangkuk/piring

Putu bambu/Putu bumbong

Putu mangkuk/piring

Qasidah

Sapit/Gulong/Kapit

Seri Muka

Soon kueh

Tat/Tae

Lamban

Punjung

Roti tisu

Sagu Gula Melaka

Bandung

Cendol

Cheng tng

Cincau

Chrysanthemum tea

Ginger tea

Ipoh white coffee

Janda pulang

Soy milk

Teh tarik

Lihing

Montoku

Sambal Belacan Budu Cincalok Tempoyak

Belacan

Cincalok

Tempoyak

Category: Malaysian cuisine

List of Malaysian dishes

American fried rice

Evil jungle prince

Hoi thot

Khao kha mu

Khao khluk kapi

Khao man kai

Khao na pet

Khao mok

Khao mu daeng

Kuaitiao khua kai

Kuaitiao ruea

Mi krop

Pad kee mao

Pad thai

Phat mi Khorat

Phat si-io

Rat na

Sukhothai noodles

Thai fried rice

Yentafo

Green curry

Ho mok

Kaeng pa

Kaeng som

Kaeng thepho

Khai yat sai

Kung chae nampla

Massaman curry

Nam kaeng hua chai thao

Nuea phat phrik

Phanaeng

Phat kaphrao

Phat khing

Phat phrik khing

Red curry

Som tam

Tom kha kai

Tom khlong

Tom som

Tom yum

Tom yum kung

Yam khai dao

Yellow curry

Bamboo shoot salad

Chim chum

Kai yang

Nam tok

Sai krok Isan

Suea rong hai

Tam maak hoong

Yam naem khao thot

Kaeng khae

Kaeng hang le

Khao kan chin

Khao soi

Nam ngiao

Nam phrik num

Nam phrik ong

Sai ua

Kaeng phrik kraduk mu

Kaeng tai pla

Khao yam

Khua kling

Nasi dagang

Nasi goreng

Nasi lemak

Cho muang

Hoicho

Kalamae

Karipap

Khaep mu

Khao phan

Khanom bodin

Khanom chip

Keropok

Khanom khai nok kratha

Khanom kheng

Khanom khi noo

Khanom khuai ling

Khanom fak bua

Khanom nuan haeo

Khanom phak kat

Khanom Tokyo

Khao chae

Khao kriap kung

Khrongkhraeng krop

Kluai khaek

Koh-Kae

Krop khem

Kuaitiao lot

La tiang

Mamuang kuan

Mamuang nampla wan

Miang kham

Mu ping

Pathongko

Roti sai mai

Sakhu sai mu

Salapao

Thong muan

Thong muan sot

List of Thai khanom

Bua loi

Bulan dan mek

Cha mongkut

Chaokuai

Fakthong kaeng buat

Foi thong

Khanom babin

Khanom bueang

Khanom bueang Yuan

Khanom chak

Khanom chan

Khanom farang kudi chin

Khanom keson lamchiak

Khanom khai

Khanom khai hong

Khanom khai pla

Khanom krok

Khanom la

Khanom met khanun

Khanom mo kaeng

Khanom namdokmai

Khanom phing

Khanom piakpun

Khanom sai bua

Khanom sane chan

Khanom sot sai

Khanom tan

Khanom thang taek

Khanom thian

Khanom thuai

Khanom thuai fu

Khanom tom

Khanom wong

Khao lam

Khao mak

Khao niao sangkhaya

Khao tom mat

Kleeb lamduan

Kluai buat chi

Krayasat

Lot chong

Luk chup

Mango sticky rice

Namkhaeng sai

Namtan pan

Sago with coconut milk

Stir-fried ice cream

Sangkhaya

Sangkhaya fak thong

Thapthim krop

Thong ek

Thong yip

Thong yot

Thua khiao tom namtan

Fish sauce

Hot dogs in Thai cuisine

Jasmine rice

Kap klaem

Khantoke

Khanom chin

Khao chae

Kun chiang

Mu daeng

Mu kratha

Nam chim

Nam phrik

Nam phrik phao

Nine auspicious Thai desserts

Padaek

Phrik khi nu

Pla ra

Riceberry

Shumai

Sriracha

Steamed rice

Sticky rice

Thai curry

Thai fruit carving

Thai salads

Cha chak

Krating Daeng

Lao Khao

Mekhong

Nom yen

Oliang

Sang Som

Singha

Thai beers

Thai tea

Thai wine

List of Thai dishes

List of Thai ingredients

List of Thai restaurants

Street food of Thailand

Category: Thai cuisine

History

Politics

Economy

Police

Cities

Metropolitan areas Chaoshan Pearl River Delta

Chaoshan

Pearl River Delta

Sanyi (Sam Yup)

Sze Yup (Siyi)

Leizhou Peninsula

Regions Pearl River Delta Yuexi Yuebei Yuedong

Pearl River Delta

Yuebei

Yuedong

Pearl River

East River

West River

Nanling Mountains

Pratas Island and the Vereker Banks (claimed)

Shamian Island

Guangzhou Education

Shenzhen Education

Lingnan culture

Cantonese people

Varieties of Chinese Yue Chinese Hailufeng Teochew Hakka

Yue Chinese

Hailufeng

Teochew

Lingnan architecture

Tong lau

Lingnan garden

Cantonese embroidery

Teochew woodcarving

Lingnan penjing

Canton porcelain

Lingnan School

Cantonese opera

Naamyam

Guangdong music

Gou Wu

Cantonese poetry

Cantonese nationalism

Hung Ga

Wing Chun

Lingnan Confucianism

Flowermarket

Cantonese lion dance

Wong Tai Sin

Hung Shing

Cantonese merchants

Red cotton flower

Cantonese folktales

The Legend of Five Goats

Villain hitting

Hakka people

Teochew people

Zhuang people

Chu Hua Yuan

Cantonese cuisine

Beef chow fun

Chow mein

Char siu

Roasted suckling pig

Bird's nest soup

Seafood birdsnest

Shumai

Cantonese fried rice

Dim sum Yum cha

Yum cha

Leung cha

Tong sui

Hakka cuisine

Teochew cuisine

Category

Commons

# Sichuan pepper


Sichuan pepper (Chinese: 花椒; pinyin: huājiāo) is a spice made from the dried pericarp (outer shell of the fruit) of a plant of the genus Zanthoxylum in the family Rutaceae. It is commonly used in Sichuan cuisine of China and in the cuisines of the Himalayas. Despite its name, Sichuan pepper is not closely related to black pepper or chili peppers. Instead, Zanthoxylum plants are in the same family as citrus and rue.

When eaten, Sichuan pepper produces a tingling, numbing effect due to the presence of hydroxy-alpha sanshool. It is used in Sichuan dishes such as mapo doufu and Chongqing hot pot, and is often added to chili peppers to create a flavor known as málà (Chinese: 麻辣; 'numb-spiciness').

Species and cultivars

Sichuan peppers have been used for culinary and medicinal purposes in China for centuries with numerous Zanthoxylum species called huājiāo. Commonly used sichuan peppers in China include:

Less commonly cultivated species found in China include:

Zanthoxylum simulans Chinese: 野花椒; pinyin: yě huājiāo (red fruit)

For a full list, consult Flora Reipublicae Popularis Sinicae, which lists scientific binomials, accepted common names among Chinese scholars, and local vernacular names.

Over the years, Chinese farmers have cultivated multiple strains of Z. bungeanum and Z. schinifolium.

Zanthoxylum armatum is found throughout the Himalayas, from Kashmir to Bhutan, as well as in Taiwan, Nepal, China, Philippines, Malaysia, Japan, and Pakistan, and is known by a variety of regional names, including timur (टिमुर) in Nepali and Hindko, yer ma (གཡེར་མ་) in Khams Tibetan and thingye (ཐིང༌ངེ༌) in Bhutan.

Other Zanthoxylum spices

Zanthoxylum gilletii is an African species of Zanthoxylum used to produce spice uzazi. Similarly, other Zanthoxylum species are harvested for spice and seasoning production in a number of cultures and culinary traditions. These spices include andaliman, chopi, sancho, sanshō, teppal, and tirphal.[citation needed]

Zanthoxylum oxyphyllum, known as mejenga, is used as a herb in Assam, India.

Culinary uses

Sichuan pepper is an important spice in Chinese, Nepali, Kashmiri, north east Indian, Tibetan, and Bhutanese cookery of the Himalayas. Sichuan pepper has a citrus-like flavor and induces a tingling numbness in the mouth, akin to a 50-hertz vibration (typical of RA1 mechanical vibrotactile sensors in humans), due to the presence of hydroxy-alpha sanshool. Food historian Harold McGee describes the effect of sanshools thus:

"...they produce a strange, tingling, buzzing, numbing sensation that is something like the effect of carbonated drinks or of a mild electric current (touching the terminals of a nine-volt battery to the tongue). Sanshools appear to act on several different kinds of nerve endings at once, induce sensitivity to touch and cold in nerves that are ordinarily nonsensitive, and so perhaps cause a kind of general neurological confusion."

Chinese cuisine

Whole, green, freshly picked Sichuan pepper may be used in cooking, but dried Sichuan pepper is more commonly used. Once dried, the shiny black seeds inside the husk are discarded, along with any stems; the husk is what we know as Sichuan pepper or peppercorn.[citation needed]

The peppercorn may be used whole or finely ground, as it is in five-spice powder. Mala sauce (Chinese: 麻辣; pinyin: málà; lit. 'numbing and spicy'), common in Sichuan cooking, is a combination of Sichuan pepper and chili pepper, and it is a key ingredient in Chongqing hot pot.

Sichuan pepper is also available as an oil (Chinese: 花椒油, marketed as either "Sichuan pepper oil", "Bunge prickly ash oil", or "huajiao oil"). Sichuan pepper infused oil can be used in dressing, dipping sauces, or any dish in which the flavor of the peppercorn is desired without the texture of the peppercorns themselves.

Hua jiao yan (simplified Chinese: 花椒盐; traditional Chinese: 花椒鹽; pinyin: huājiāoyán) is a mixture of salt and Sichuan pepper, toasted and browned in a wok, and served as a condiment to accompany chicken, duck, and pork dishes.

The leaves of the sichuan pepper tree are also used in soups and fried foods.[better source needed]

Other regions

One Himalayan specialty is the momo, a dumpling stuffed with vegetables, cottage cheese, or minced yak or beef, and flavored with Sichuan pepper, garlic, ginger, and onion. In Nepal, the mala flavor is known as timur (टिमुर).

In Bhutan, it is used in preparing ezay (a side dish similar to chutney), to add spiciness to rice porridge (ཐུགཔ་), ba-thup and noodle (buckwheat noodles similar to soba) and other snacks. It is extensively used in preparing blood sausages throughout Bhutan and Tibet.

In Korean cuisine, sancho is often used to accompany fish soups such as chueo-tang.

In Indonesian Batak cuisine, andaliman is ground and mixed with chilies and seasonings into a green sambal or chili paste. Arsik is a typical Indonesian dish containing andaliman.

Medicinal uses

In Traditional Chinese medicine, Zanthoxylum bungeanum has been used as a herbal remedy. It is listed in the Pharmacopoeia of the People's Republic of China and is prescribed for ailments as various as abdominal pains, toothache, and eczema. However, Sichuan pepper has no indications or accepted case for use in evidence-based medicine. Research has revealed that Z. bungeanum can have analgesic, anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, and antioxidant effects in model animals and cell cultures. In rabbits, Z. armatum was experimentally investigated for its potential use in treating gastrointestinal, respiratory, and cardiovascular disorders.

Phytochemistry

Important compounds of various Zanthoxylum species include:

Zanthoxylum fagara (Central & Southern Africa, South America)—alkaloids, coumarins (Phytochemistry, 27, 3933, 1988)

Zanthoxylum simulans (Taiwan)—Mostly beta-myrcene, limonene, 1,8-cineole, Z-beta-ocimene (J. Agri. & Food Chem., 44, 1096, 1996)

Zanthoxylum armatum (Nepal)—linalool (50%), limonene, methyl cinnamate, cineole

Zanthoxylum rhetsa (India)—Sabinene, limonene, pinenes, para-cymene, terpinenes, 4-terpineol, alpha-terpineol. (Zeitschrift f. Lebensmitteluntersuchung und -forschung A, 206, 228, 1998)

Zanthoxylum piperitum (Japan [leaves])—citronellal, citronellol, Z-3-hexenal (Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Biochemistry, 61, 491, 1997)

Zanthoxylum acanthopodium (Indonesia)—citronellal, limonene

Historical US import ban

From 1968 to 2005, the United States Food and Drug Administration banned the importation of Sichuan peppercorns because they were found to be capable of carrying citrus canker (as the tree is in the same family, Rutaceae, as the genus Citrus). This bacterial disease, which is very difficult to control, could potentially harm the foliage and fruit of citrus crops in the U.S. The import ban was only loosely enforced until 2002.

In 2005, the USDA and FDA allowed imports, provided the peppercorns were heated for ten minutes to approximately 140 °F (60 °C) to kill any canker bacteria. Starting in 2007, the USDA no longer required peppercorns to be heated, fully ending the import ban on peppercorns.

See also

Acmella oleracea (Sichuan buttons)

^ also known as Sichuanese pepper, Szechuan pepper, Chinese prickly ash, Chinese pepper, Mountain pepper, and mala pepper, historically known as fagara

References

Citations

^ Austin, Daniel F.; Felger, Richard S. (2008). "Sichuan Peppers and the Etymology of Fagara (Rutaceae)". Economic Botany. 62 (4): 567-573. Bibcode:2008EcBot..62..567A. doi:10.1007/s12231-008-9057-0. JSTOR 40390390.

^ Zhang, Mengmeng; Wang, Jiaolong (October 2017). "Zanthoxylum bungeanum Maxim. (Rutaceae): A Systematic Review of Its Traditional Uses, Botany, Phytochemistry, Pharmacology, Pharmacokinetics, and Toxicology". International Journal of Molecular Sciences. 18 (10): 2172. doi:10.3390/ijms18102172. PMC 5666853. PMID 29057808. S2CID 1057880.

^ Holliday, Taylor (23 October 2017). "Where the Peppers Grow". Slate.com. Retrieved 15 October 2020.

^ 临夏县概况 (Linxia County overview)

^ a b Xiang, Li; Liu, Yue (April 2016). "The Chemical and Genetic Characteristics of Szechuan Pepper (Zanthoxylum bungeanum and Z. armatum) Cultivars and Their Suitable Habitat". Frontiers in Plant Science. 7: 467. Bibcode:2016FrPS....7..467X. doi:10.3389/fpls.2016.00467. PMC 4835500. PMID 27148298.

^ a b "花椒活性成分研究获进展 - 生物研究专区 - 生物谷". news.bioon.com.

^ "花椒，藤椒，麻椒，如何区分及不同的使用方法！-美食频道-手机搜狐". Sohu.

^ "Sichuan Peppercorn | China Sichuan Food". 22 April 2015.

^ "竹叶花椒 Zanthoxylum armatum DC". db.kib.ac.cn.

^ "Xanthoxylum Simulans - North Carolina State University fact sheet". Archived from the original on 18 November 2013. Retrieved 15 June 2022.

^ "野花椒 Zanthoxylum simulans Hance". db.kib.ac.cn.

^ "花椒属 Zanthoxylum L."

^ Kanwal, Rabia; Arshad, Muhammed (22 February 2015). "Evaluation of Ethnopharmacological and Antioxidant Potential of Zanthoxylum armatum DC". Journal of Chemistry. 2015: 1–8. doi:10.1155/2015/925654.

^ Kala, Chandra Prakash; Farooquee, Nehal A; Dhar, Uppeandra (2005). "Traditional Uses and Conservation of Timur (Zanthoxylum armatum DC.) through Social Institutions in Uttaranchal Himalaya, India". Conservation and Society. 3 (1): 224–230. Retrieved 15 October 2020.

^ "Some Spices and Ingredients". simplytibetan.com. 16 December 2011. Retrieved 15 October 2020.

^ Tshering Dema. "Kingdom Essences: An Essential Oil Brand Which Harnesses Natural Ingredients From Rural Bhutan". DailyBhutan.com. Retrieved 15 October 2020.

^ "Zanthoxylum oxyphyllum Edgew". India Flora Online.

^ Ravindran, P. N. (28 December 2017). The Encyclopedia of Herbs and Spices. CAB International. p. 271. ISBN 978-1-78064-315-1.

^ Hagura, Nobuhiro; Barber, Harry; Haggard, Patrick (7 November 2013). "Food vibrations: Asian spice sets lips trembling". Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. 280 (1770) 20131680. doi:10.1098/rspb.2013.1680. PMC 3779329. PMID 24026819.

^ McGee, Harold (2007). On Food and Cooking: The Science and Lore of the Kitchen. New York: Scribner. p. 429. ISBN 978-1-4165-5637-4.

^ "How to Make Five-Spice Powder". thewoksoflife.com. 3 February 2020. Retrieved 16 October 2020.

^ Holliday, Taylor (7 February 2020). "Sichuan Mala Hot Pot, From Scratch (Mala Huo Guo with Tallow Broth)". themalamarket.com. Retrieved 15 October 2020.

^ "Sichuan Peppercorn Oil". thewoksoflife.com. 3 April 2020. Retrieved 6 October 2020.

^ "Fragrant crispy duck with Sichuan pepper salt (香酥鸭)". soyricefire.com. 18 November 2012. Retrieved 15 October 2020.

^ Crispy Pie Made of Tender Pepper Leaves, retrieved 27 June 2021

^ Nguyen, Andrea (19 November 2009). "Recipe: Tibetan Beef and Sichuan Peppercorn Dumplings ('Sha Momo')". NPR. Retrieved 15 October 2020.

^ Gritzer, Daniel; Dunlop, Fuchsia (13 January 2020). "Get to Know Málà, Sichuan Food's Most Famous Flavor". seriouseats.com. Retrieved 15 October 2020.

^ Philip Gowman (5 December 2016). "In praise of Sancho and Flat Three". londonkoreanlinks.net. Retrieved 15 October 2020.

^ Lanny Leifsson (8 November 2011). "Sambal Andaliman Recipe (Andaliman Pepper Sambal)". indonesiaeats.com. Retrieved 15 October 2020.

^ "Arsik Recipe (Spiced Carp with Torch Ginger and Andaliman – Mandailing Style)". indonesiaeats.com. 12 July 2012. Archived from the original on 17 October 2020. Retrieved 15 October 2020.

^ Zhang, Mengmeng; Wang, Jiaolong (October 2017). "Zanthoxylum bungeanum Maxim. (Rutaceae): A Systematic Review of Its Traditional Uses, Botany, Phytochemistry, Pharmacology, Pharmacokinetics, and Toxicology". International Journal of Molecular Sciences. 18 (10): 2172. doi:10.3390/ijms18102172. PMC 5666853. PMID 29057808.

^ Khan, Arif; Gilani, Anwar-ul Hassan (January 2009). "Pharmacological Basis for the Medicinal Use of Zanthoxylum armatum in Gut, Airways and Cardiovascular Disorders". Phytotherapy Research. 24 (4): 553–8. doi:10.1002/ptr.2979. PMID 20041426. S2CID 22485048. Retrieved 16 October 2020.

^ Wijaya, Christofora Hanny; Napitupulu, Florensia Irena; Karnady, Vanessa; Indariani, Susi (6 March 2018). "A review of the bioactivity and flavor properties of the exotic spice "andaliman" (Zanthoxylum acanthopodium DC.)" (PDF). Food Reviews International. 35 (1): 1–19. doi:10.1080/87559129.2018.1438470. Archived from the original on 3 November 2025. p. 6: Aroma extract dilution analysis reveals that the potent odorants in andaliman [Zanthoxylum acanthopodium] are citronellal (FD ["flavor dillution"] 128) and limonene (FD = 32) (Fig. 5).

^ "eCFR — Code of Federal Regulations". www.ecfr.gov. Retrieved 20 March 2018.

^ Landis, Denise (4 February 2004). "Sichuan's Signature Fire Is Going Out. Or Is It?". The New York Times. p. F1.

^ Amster-Burton, Matthew (17 May 2017). "Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Sichuan Peppercorns". Village Voice. Archived from the original on 26 June 2017. Retrieved 27 October 2020.

^ Holliday, Taylor (23 October 2017). "Where the Peppers Grow". Slate. Retrieved 27 October 2020.

^ "China's Sichuan Peppercorns -- Banned From the US No More - USDA". www.usda.gov. Archived from the original on 16 March 2021. Retrieved 8 August 2018.

Sources

Hu, Shiu-ying (2005). Food plants of China (preview). Vol. 1. Chinese University of Hong Kong Press. ISBN 978-962-996-229-6.

Zhou, Jiaju; Xie, Guirong; Yan, Xinjian (2011). Encyclopedia of Traditional Chinese Medicines - Molecular Structures (preview). Vol. 1. Springer. ISBN 978-3-642-16735-5.

Zhang, Dianxiang; Hartley, Thomas G. (2008). "1. Zanthoxylum Linnaeus, Sp. Pl. 1: 270. 1753". Flora of China. 11: 53–66. PDF

External links

Recipes Sichuan Bang Bang Chicken Dry-fried Sichuan Beef Chongqing Chicken With Chilies (La Zi Ji) Sichuan Mala Hot Pot Tibetan Beef and Sichuan Peppercorn Dumplings ('Sha Momo') How to Make Five-spice Powder

Sichuan Bang Bang Chicken

Dry-fried Sichuan Beef

Chongqing Chicken With Chilies (La Zi Ji)

Sichuan Mala Hot Pot

Tibetan Beef and Sichuan Peppercorn Dumplings ('Sha Momo')

How to Make Five-spice Powder

Angelica

Basil Holy Thai Lemon

Bay leaf

Indian bay leaf (tejpat)

Borage

Chervil

Chives garlic / Chinese

garlic / Chinese

Cicely

Coriander leaf / Cilantro Bolivian Vietnamese (rau răm)

Bolivian

Vietnamese (rau răm)

Culantro

Curry leaf

Epazote

Hoja santa

Houttuynia cordata (giấp cá)

Hyssop

Kinh gioi (Vietnamese balm)

Kkaennip

Lavender

Lemon balm

Lemon grass

Lemon myrtle

Lemon verbena

Limnophila aromatica (rice-paddy herb)

Lovage

Marjoram

Mugwort

Mitsuba

Oregano

Parsley

Perilla

Rosemary

Savory

Sanshō leaf

Sorrel

Tarragon

Woodruff

Aonori

Ajwain

Alligator pepper

Allspice

Amchoor

Asafoetida

Black pepper

Brazilian pepper

Camphor

Caraway

Cardamom black

Cassia

Celery powder

Celery seed

Charoli

Chenpi

Chili Chili powder Cayenne Chipotle Crushed red pepper Jalapeño New Mexico Tabasco Cultivars

Chili powder

Cayenne

Chipotle

Crushed red pepper

Jalapeño

New Mexico

Tabasco

Cultivars

Cinnamon

Coriander seed

Cumin Nigella sativa Bunium persicum

Nigella sativa

Bunium persicum

Deulkkae

Dill / Dill seed

Fennel

Fenugreek blue

Fingerroot

Galangal greater lesser

greater

lesser

Garlic

Ginger

Aromatic ginger

Golpar

Grains of paradise

Grains of Selim

Horseradish

Japanese pricklyash

Juniper berry

Korarima

Dried lime

Liquorice

Litsea cubeba

Long pepper

Mango-ginger

Mastic

Mahleb

Mustard black brown white

Nigella

Njangsa

Nutmeg

Onion powder

Paprika

Peruvian pepper

Pomegranate seed

Poppy seed

Radhuni

Saffron

Sarsaparilla

Sassafras

Sesame

Sichuan pepper (huājiāo)

Star anise

Tamarind

Tasmanian pepper

Tonka bean

Turmeric

Vanilla

Voatsiperifery

Wasabi

Yuzu zest

Zedoary

Zereshk

Adjika

Advieh

Baharat

Beau monde seasoning

Berbere

Bouquet garni

Chaat masala

Chaunk

Cinnamon sugar

Crab boil

Curry powder

Doubanjiang

Douchi

Fines herbes

Five-spice powder

Garam masala

Garlic powder

Garlic salt

Gochujang

Harissa

Hawaij

Herbes de Provence

Húng lìu

Idli podi

Italian seasoning

Jamaican jerk spice

Khmeli suneli

Lemon pepper

Mitmita

Mixed spice

Montreal steak seasoning

Mulling spices

Old Bay Seasoning

Panch phoron

Persillade

Powder-douce

Pumpkin pie spice

Qâlat daqqa

Quatre épices

Ras el hanout

Recado rojo

Sharena sol

Shichimi

Tandoori masala

Thuna paha

Vadouvan

Yuzu koshō

Za'atar

Culinary

By region Australian Bangladeshi Indian Pakistani

Australian

Bangladeshi

Indian

Pakistani

Chinese herbology

Herbal tea

Marination

Seasoning

Spice rub

Ants climbing a tree

Bingfen

Laziji (chicken with chili peppers)

Dan dan noodles

Doubanjiang

Douhua

Fuqi feipian

Guaiwei

Hot and sour noodle

Chongqing hot pot

Hot pot

Kung Pao chicken

Leng chi tu

Malatang

Mala sauce

Maocai

Mapo tofu

Pao cai

Shuizhu

Sichuan pepper

Suanla chaoshou

Tuotuorou

Twice-cooked pork

Wonton

Wuliangye Yibin

Yanbangcai

Yuxiang

Zajiangmian

Zha cai

Zhangcha duck

Hong Kong cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Adzuki bean

Bamboo

Banana flower

Barbeque

Coconut

Eggplant

Erkuai

Flowers

Crossing-the-bridge noodles

Hot pot

Jackfruit

Jidou liangfen

Granny's potato

Mi gan

Mi xian

Mushrooms

Nashi pear

Palm sugar

Pineapple rice

Pu'er tea

Steam pot chicken

Rubing

Rushan

Sichuan pepper

Shiping tofu

Spring rolls

Sweet potato

Tangerine

Xuanwei ham

Xidoufen

Zhe'ergen

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

4-Hydroxynonenal

4-Oxo-2-nonenal

5,6-EET

12S-HpETE

15-Deoxy-Δ12,14-prostaglandin J2

α-Sanshool (ginger, Sichuan and melegueta peppers)

Acrolein

Allicin (garlic)

Allyl isothiocyanate (mustard, radish, horseradish, wasabi)

ASP-7663

Bradykinin

Cannabichromene (cannabis)

Cannabidiol (cannabis)

Cannabigerol (cannabis)

Cinnamaldehyde (cinnamon)

CR gas (dibenzoxazepine; DBO)

CS gas (2-chlorobenzal malononitrile)

Cuminaldehyde (cumin)

Curcumin (turmeric)

Dehydroligustilide (celery)

Diallyl disulfide

Dicentrine (Lindera spp.)

Farnesyl thiosalicylic acid

Formalin

Gingerols (ginger)

Hepoxilin A3

Hepoxilin B3

Hydrogen peroxide

Icilin

Isothiocyanate

JT-010

Ligustilide (celery, Angelica acutiloba)

Linalool (Sichuan pepper, thyme)

Methylglyoxal

Methyl salicylate (wintergreen)

N-Methylmaleimide

Nicotine (tobacco)

Oleocanthal (olive oil)

Paclitaxel (Pacific yew)

PF-4840154

Phenacyl chloride

Polygodial (Dorrigo pepper)

Shogaols (ginger, Sichuan and melegueta peppers)

Tear gases

Tetrahydrocannabinol (cannabis)

Tetrahydrocannabiorcol

Thiopropanal S-oxide (onion)

Umbellulone (Umbellularia californica)

WIN 55,212-2

A-967079

AM-0902

Dehydroligustilide (celery)

HC-030031

Nicotine (tobacco)

PF-04745637

Ruthenium red

Adhyperforin (St John's wort)

Diacyl glycerol

GSK1702934A

Hyperforin (St John's wort)

Substance P

DHEA-S

Flufenamic acid

GSK417651A

GSK2293017A

Meclofenamic acid

N-(p-Amylcinnamoyl)anthranilic acid

Niflumic acid

Pregnenolone sulfate

Progesterone

Tolfenamic acid

ADP-ribose

Calcium (intracellular)

CIM-0216

Coolact P

Cooling Agent 10

Eucalyptol (eucalyptus)

Frescolat MGA

Frescolat ML

Geraniol

Hydroxycitronellal

Icilin

Linalool

Menthol (mint)

PMD 38

Pregnenolone sulfate

Rutamarin (Ruta graveolens)

Steviol glycosides (e.g., stevioside) (Stevia rebaudiana)

Sweet tastants (e.g., glucose, fructose, sucrose; indirectly)

Thio-BCTC

AMG-333

Capsazepine

Clotrimazole

Elismetrep

Flufenamic acid

Meclofenamic acid

Mefenamic acid

N-(p-Amylcinnamoyl)anthranilic acid

Nicotine (tobacco)

Niflumic acid

Ononetin

PF-05105679

RQ-00203078

Ruthenium red

Rutamarin (Ruta graveolens)

Tolfenamic acid

TRPM4-IN-5

MK6-83

ML-SA1

ML2-SA1

PI(3,5)P2

ML-SI3

PI(4,5)P2

Triptolide (Tripterygium wilfordii)

Ruthenium red

5,6-EET

9-HODE

9-oxoODE

12S-HETE

12S-HpETE

13-HODE

13-oxoODE

20-HETE

α-Sanshool (ginger, Sichuan and melegueta peppers)

Allicin (garlic)

Anandamide

Bisandrographolide (Andrographis paniculata)

Camphor (camphor laurel, rosemary, camphorweed, African blue basil, camphor basil)

Cannabidiol (cannabis)

Cannabidivarin (cannabis)

Capsaicin (chili pepper)

Carvacrol (oregano, thyme, pepperwort, wild bergamot, others)

Diacyl glycerol

Dihydrocapsaicin (chili pepper)

Estradiol

Eugenol (basil, clove)

Evodiamine (Euodia ruticarpa)

Gingerols (ginger)

GSK1016790A

Hepoxilin A3

Hepoxilin B3

Homocapsaicin (chili pepper)

Homodihydrocapsaicin (chili pepper)

Incensole (incense)

Lysophosphatidic acid

Low pH (acidic conditions)

Menthol (mint)

N-Arachidonoyl dopamine

N-Oleoyldopamine

N-Oleoylethanolamide

Nonivamide (PAVA) (PAVA spray)

Nordihydrocapsaicin (chili pepper)

Paclitaxel (Pacific yew)

Paracetamol (acetaminophen)

Phenylacetylrinvanil

Phorbol esters (e.g., 4α-PDD)

Piperine (black pepper, long pepper)

Polygodial (Dorrigo pepper)

Probenecid

Protons

Rutamarin (Ruta graveolens)

Resiniferatoxin (RTX) (Euphorbia resinifera/pooissonii)

Shogaols (ginger, Sichuan and melegueta peppers)

Tetrahydrocannabivarin (cannabis)

Thymol (thyme, oregano)

Tinyatoxin (Euphorbia resinifera/pooissonii)

Tramadol

Vanillin (vanilla)

Zucapsaicin

α-Spinasterol (Vernonia tweediana)

AMG-517

AMG-9810

Asivatrep

Cannabigerol (cannabis)

Cannabigerolic acid (cannabis)

Cannabigerovarin (cannabis)

Cannabinol (cannabis)

Capsazepine

DHEA-S

Flufenamic acid

GRC-6211

HC-067047

Lanthanum

Mavatrep

Meclofenamic acid

N-(p-Amylcinnamoyl)anthranilic acid

NGD-8243

Niflumic acid

Pregnenolone sulfate

RN-1734

RN-9893

Ruthenium red

SB-366791

SB-705498

Tivanisiran

Tolfenamic acid

TRPV3-74a

# Huaiyang cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Huaiyang or Jianghuai cuisine is one of the Four Great Traditions in Chinese cuisine. It is derived from the native cooking styles of the region surrounding the lower reaches of the Huai and Yangtze rivers and centered on the cities of Huai'an, Yangzhou and Zhenjiang in Jiangsu Province. Although it is one of several sub-regional styles within Jiangsu cuisine, Huaiyang cuisine is widely seen in Chinese culinary circles as the most popular and prestigious style of Jiangsu cuisine, to a point where it is considered to be one of the Four Great Traditions (四大菜系; Sì dà càixì) that dominate the culinary heritage of China, along with Cantonese cuisine, Shandong cuisine, and Sichuan cuisine.

History and current status

Huaiyang cuisine, originating from regions around Huaihe River and Yangtze River, mainly Huai'an and Yangzhou, has been famous since the Sui (581–618) and Tang (618–907) dynasties. Emperors Kangxi (1654–1722) and Qianlong (1711–1799) often stayed in Huai'an and Yangzhou during their travels to the southern regions of the Yangtze River down the Grand Canal, making the cuisine popular in the nation. It has been listed as one of the four major cuisines in China since the reign of Emperor Qianlong.

Typical features

Huaiyang cuisine is characterized by basing each dish on its main ingredient; the way that ingredient is cut is pivotal to its cooking and its final taste. The cuisine is also known for its use of Chinkiang vinegar, which is produced in the Jiangsu region. Huaiyang cuisine tends to have a slightly sweet side to it and is almost never spicy, in contrast to some Chinese cuisines (like Sichuan or Hunan). Pork, chicken, and freshwater aquatic products serve as the protein base in most dishes, which are usually lighter and more meticulous prepared.

Notable dishes

Others include Yangzhou pickles, baozi, ginkgo, Qionghuayu liquor, Nanshan green tea, baoying lotus root starch, and Jiangdu short pastry.

Baozi is a type of steamed bun with meat, paste fillings, a sweet filling made with red beans. The "five diced buns" made of chicken, pork, bamboo shoots, shrimp, and sea cucumbers are Yangzhou specialties. It is sometimes served for breakfast and is best eaten hot.

There is also a dish called "beggar's chicken" (叫花雞; jiàohuā jī), which is a whole chicken marinated with spices and wrapped in aluminum foil. Contrary to its name, it is not a food for the homeless, but was traditionally wrapped in leaves or sometimes even covered in clay to allow the full flavour of the chicken to be preserved.

There is a famous branch of Huaiyang cuisine, Suxi cuisine, which refers to dishes from Suzhou and Wuxi. Wuxi sauced spare ribs, with a long history since the Qing dynasty, is a specialty in Wuxi, along with Liangxi crispy fried eel and other dishes. Another dish from the area is squirrel fish, a dish prepared in the shape of a squirrel.

Unusual dishes local to Nanjing are duck blood and vermicelli soup and stinky tofu.

Use in official dining

Huaiyang cuisine has been employed in official occasions by the Chinese government. Some examples include:

In 1949, for the first state banquet of the People's Republic of China.

In 1999, for China's 50th anniversary state banquet.

In 2002, for visiting U.S. President George W. Bush, hosted by Chinese President and General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party Jiang Zemin.

See also

List of Chinese dishes

Din Tai Fung

Chinese regional cuisine

Chinese imperial cuisine

References

^ Edward, Ragg. "China - The perfect wine match for Chinese food". Archived from the original on 2009-01-06. Retrieved 2010-03-22.

^ a b Liu Maomao (2018-01-01). "Site birthplace of Huaiyang cuisine". China Daily. Retrieved 2024-04-12.

^ "Huaiyang Cuisine, One of China's Four Major Styles of Cooking". China international travel service. Retrieved 2024-04-12.

External links

Yangzhou and Huaiyang Cuisine

Guangling District

Hanjiang District

Jiangdu District

Yizheng City

Gaoyou City

Baoying County

Slender West Lake

Daming Temple

Tomb of Puhaddin

Geyuan

He Garden

Yucheng Postal Stop

Yechun Garden

Yangzhou Museum

Huaiyang cuisine

Yangzhou fried rice

Fuchun Teahouse

Yangzhou University

Yangzhou High School of Jiangsu Province

Yangzhou Xinhua High School

Shuren School of Yangzhou Middle School Education Group

Runyang Yangtze River Bridge

Yangzhou Taizhou International Airport

Yangzhou Jianzhen International Half Marathon

Jiangsu Football City League

Yangzhou Li Ning Sports Park

South–North Water Transfer Project

Yangzhou Economic and Technological Development Zone

Yangzhou International Horticultural Exposition 2021

# Chinese Islamic cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Jahriyya revolt

Panthay Rebellion (1856–1873)

First Dungan Revolt (1862–1877)

Second Dungan Revolt (1895–1896)

Afaqi Khoja revolts

1912–present

Second Sino-Japanese War

Concerns and controversies at the 2022 Winter Olympics

Islamophobia

Migration to Xinjiang

Persecution of Uyghurs in China

Xinjiang internment camps

Afaq Khoja

Du Wenxiu

Hu Dahai

Hu Songshan

Kasim Tuet

Liu Zhi

Ma Anliang

Ma Bufang

Ma Buqing

Ma Fuxiang

Ma Gui

Ma Hualong

Ma Laichi

Ma Mingxin

Ma Qixi

Ma Wanfu

Ma Yize

Ma Zhu

Shams al-Din

Su fei-erh

Yeheidie'erding

Yusuf Ma Dexin

Wang Daiyu

Zhang Chengzhi

Zheng He

Architecture

Cuisine (Uyghur)

Han Kitab

Mosques

Shrines

Sini script

Sufi orders

Uyghurs

Uyghur Arabic

Xiao'erjing

Islamic Association of China

Cities

Regions

Hong Kong

Kashgar

Linxia

Ningxia

Sichuan

Xinjiang

Xunhua

Ahmadis

Bonans

Dongxiang

Ili Turks

Kazakhs

Kyrgyz

Tajiks

Tatars

Tibetans

Utsuls

Uyghurs

Uzbeks

Chinese Islamic cuisine consists of variations of regionally popular foods that are typical of Han Chinese cuisine, in particular to make them halal. Dishes borrow ingredients from Middle Eastern, Turkic, Iranian and South Asian cuisines, notably mutton and spices. Much like other northern Chinese cuisines, Chinese Islamic cuisine uses wheat noodles as the staple, rather than rice. Chinese Islamic dishes include clear-broth beef noodle soup and chuanr.

The Hui (ethnic Chinese Muslims), Bonan, Dongxiang, Salar and Uyghurs of China, as well as the Dungans of Central Asia and the Panthays of Burma, collectively contribute to Chinese Islamic cuisine.

History

Due to the large Muslim population in Western China, many Chinese restaurants cater to or are run by Muslims. Northern Chinese Islamic cuisine originated in China proper. It is heavily influenced by Beijing cuisine, with nearly all cooking methods identical and differs only in material due to religious restrictions. As a result, northern Islamic cuisine is often included in home Beijing cuisine though seldom in east coast restaurants.

During the Yuan dynasty, halal and kosher methods of slaughtering animals and preparing food was banned and forbidden by the Mongol emperors, starting with Genghis Khan who banned Muslims and Jews from slaughtering their animals their own way and made them follow the Mongol method.

Among all the [subject] alien peoples only the Hui-hui say "we do not eat Mongol food." [Cinggis Qa'an replied:] "By the aid of heaven we have pacified you; you are our slaves. Yet you do not eat our food or drink. How can this be right?" He thereupon made them eat. "If you slaughter sheep, you will be considered guilty of a crime." He issued a regulation to that effect ... [In 1279/1280 under Qubilai] all the Muslims say: “if someone else slaughters [the animal] we do not eat." Because the poor people are upset by this, from now on, Musuluman [Muslim] Huihui and Zhuhu [Jewish] Huihui, no matter who kills [the animal] will eat [it] and must cease slaughtering sheep themselves, and cease the rite of circumcision.

Traditionally, there is a distinction between Northern and Southern Chinese Islamic cuisine despite both using lamb and mutton. Northern Chinese Islamic cuisine relies heavily on beef, but rarely ducks, geese, shrimp or seafood, while southern Islamic cuisine is the reverse. This difference is due to availability of the ingredients. Oxen have been long used for farming and Chinese governments have frequently strictly prohibited the slaughter of oxen for food. However, due to the geographic proximity of the northern part of China to minority-dominated regions that were not subjected to such restrictions, beef could be easily purchased and transported to Northern China. At the same time, ducks, geese and shrimp are rare in comparison to Southern China due to the arid climate of Northern China.

A Chinese Islamic restaurant (Chinese: 淸眞菜館; pinyin: qīngzhēn càiguǎn) can be similar to a Mandarin restaurant with the exception that there is no pork on the menu and the dishes are primarily based on noodles or soup.

In most major eastern cities in China, there are very limited Islamic/halal restaurants, which are typically run by migrants from western China (e.g., Uyghurs). They primarily offer inexpensive noodle soups only. These restaurants are typically decorated with Islamic motifs such as Islamic calligraphy.

Another difference is that lamb and mutton dishes are more commonly available than in other Chinese restaurants, due to the greater prevalence of these meats in the cuisine of western Chinese regions. (Refer to image 1.)

Other Muslim ethnic minorities like the Bonan, Dongxiang, Salar and Tibetan Muslims have their own cuisines as well. Dongxiang people operate their own restaurants serving their cuisine.

Many cafeterias (canteens) at Chinese universities have separate sections or dining areas for Muslim students (Hui or Western Chinese minorities), typically labeled "qingzhen". Student ID cards sometimes indicate whether a student is Muslim and will allow access to these dining areas or will allow access on special occasions such as the Eid feast following Ramadan.

Several Hui restaurants serving Chinese Islamic cuisine exist in Los Angeles.

Many Chinese Hui Muslims who moved from Yunnan to Burma (Myanmar) are known as Panthays; they operate restaurants and stalls serving Chinese Islamic cuisine such as noodles. Chinese Hui Muslims from Yunnan who moved to Thailand are known as Chin Haw and they also own restaurants and stalls serving Chinese Islamic food.

In Central Asia, Dungan people, descendants of Hui, operate restaurants serving Chinese Islamic cuisine, which is referred to as Dungan cuisine there. They cater to Chinese businessmen. Chopsticks are used by Dungans. The cuisine of the Dungan resembles northwestern Chinese cuisine.

Most Chinese regard Hui halal food as cleaner than food made by non-Muslims, so their restaurants are popular in China. Hui who migrated to Northeast China (Manchuria) after the Chuang Guandong opened many new inns and restaurants to cater to travelers, which were regarded as clean.

The Hui who migrated to Taiwan operate Qingzhen restaurants and stalls serving Chinese Islamic cuisine in Taipei and other major cities.

The Thai Department of Export Promotion claims that "China's halal food producers are small-scale entrepreneurs whose products have little value added and lack branding and technology to push their goods to international standards" to encourage Thai private-sector halal producers to market their products in China.

A 1903-founded franchise serving Muslim food is Dong Lai Shun in Hankou.

Each restaurant serving beef noodles must be at least 400 meters from another of its type if they belong to Hui Muslims, since Hui have a pact between each other in Ningxia, Gansu and Shaanxi.

Halal restaurants are checked up upon by clerics from mosques.

Halal food manufacture has been sanctioned by the government of the Ningxia Autonomous Region.

Famous dishes

Lamian

Lamian (simplified Chinese: 拉面; traditional Chinese: 拉麪; pinyin: lāmiàn, Dungan: Ламян) is a Chinese dish of hand-made noodles, usually served in a beef or mutton-flavored soup (湯麪, даңмян, tāngmiàn), but sometimes stir-fried (炒麪, Чаомян, chǎomiàn) and served with a tomato-based sauce. Literally, 拉, ла (lā) means to pull or stretch, while 麪, мян (miàn) means noodle. The hand-making process involves taking a lump of dough and repeatedly stretching it to produce a single very long noodle. There exists a local variant in Lanzhou, the Lanzhou beef noodles, also known as Lanzhou lamian.

Words that begin with L are not native to Turkic — läghmän is a loanword as stated by Uyghur linguist Abdlikim: It is of Chinese derivation and not originally Uyghur.

Beef noodle soup

Beef noodle soup is a noodle soup dish composed of stewed beef, beef broth, vegetables and wheat noodles. It exists in various forms throughout East and Southeast Asia. It was created by the Hui people during the Qing dynasty of China.

In the west, this food may be served in a small portion as a soup. In China, a large bowl of it is often taken as a whole meal with or without any side dish.

Chuanr

Chuanr (Chinese: 串儿, Dungan: Чўанр, Pinyin: chuànr (shortened from "chuan er"), "kebab"), originating in the Xinjiang (新疆) province of China and in recent years has been disseminated throughout the rest of that country, most notably in Beijing. It is a product of the Chinese Islamic cuisine of the Uyghur (维吾尔) people and other Chinese Muslims. Yang rou chuan or lamb kebabs, is particularly popular.

Suan cai

Suan cai is a traditional fermented vegetable dish, similar to Korean kimchi and German sauerkraut, used in a variety of ways. It consists of pickled Chinese cabbage. Suan cai is a unique form of pao cai due to the material used and the method of production. Although suan cai is not exclusive to Chinese Islamic cuisine, it is used in Chinese Islamic cuisine to top off noodle soups, especially beef noodle soup.

Nang (Chinese: 馕, Dungan: Нәң) is a type of round unleavened bread, topped with sesame. It is similar to South and Central Asia naan.

Image gallery

Beef noodle served

Peking duck served at a halal restaurant in Beijing

Niang pi (酿皮, Няң пы), a popular vegetarian noodle cold dish in Linxia

See also

China portal

Islam portal

Food portal

Chinese cuisine

Islam in China

Uyghur cuisine

Dali City

Kunming

Lanzhou

Ningxia

Qinghai

Shaanxi

Yunnan

References

^ Michael Dillon (1999). China's Muslim Hui community: migration, settlement and sects. Richmond: Curzon Press. p. 24. ISBN 0-7007-1026-4. Retrieved 2010-06-28.

^ Johan Elverskog (2010). Buddhism and Islam on the Silk Road (illustrated ed.). University of Pennsylvania Press. p. 228. ISBN 978-0-8122-4237-9. Retrieved 2010-06-28. halal chinggis khan you are our slaves .

^ Donald Daniel Leslie (1998). "The Integration of Religious Minorities in China: The Case of Chinese Muslims" (PDF). The Fifty-ninth George Ernest Morrison Lecture in Ethnology. p. 12. Archived from the original (PDF) on 17 December 2010. Retrieved 30 November 2010..

^ Dru C. Gladney (2004). Dislocating China: reflections on Muslims, minorities, and other subaltern subjects. University of Chicago Press. p. 188. ISBN 0-226-29775-6. Retrieved 2010-11-28.

^ David Trilling (April 20, 2010). "Kyrgyzstan Eats: A Dungan Feast in Naryn". EURASIANET.org.

^ Barbara A. West (1994). An Ethnohistorical dictionary of the Russian and Soviet empiresJames Stuart Olson, Nicholas Charles Pappas. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 204. ISBN 0-313-27497-5. Retrieved 2011-01-01.

^ Svetlana Rimsky-Korsakoff Dyer (1979). Soviet Dungan kolkhozes in the Kirghiz SSR and the Kazakh SSR. Faculty of Asian Studies, ANU. p. 62. ISBN 0-909879-11-7. Retrieved 2011-01-01.

^ Ḥevrah ha-Mizraḥit ha-Yiśreʾelit (1983). Asian and African studies, Volume 16. Jerusalem Academic Press. p. 338. Retrieved 2011-01-01.[full citation needed]

^ Morris Rossabi (2005). Governing China's Multiethnic Frontiers. University of Washington Press. p. 32. ISBN 0-295-98412-0. Retrieved 2011-04-09.

^ Peter G. Gowing (July–August 1970). "Islam in Taiwan". Saudi Aramco World. pp. 22–27. Archived from the original on 2014-09-11. Retrieved 2014-05-07.; PDF at "Saudi Aramco World July–August 1970" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2010-01-14.

^ MCOT online news (May 17, 2011). "Thai private sector urged to penetrate China's halal market". MCOT online news. Archived from the original on May 20, 2011. Retrieved 2010-11-28.

^ David Leffman; Simon Lewis; Jeremy Atiyah (2003). China. Rough Guides. pp. 540–. ISBN 978-1-84353-019-0.

^ Guo, Diandian; Koetse, Manya (July 24, 2016). "Weibo Netizens Show Support for Shanghai Restaurant Harassed By Muslim "Noodle Gang"". What's on Weibo.

^ "Got beef? How one man faced down a 'noodle cartel'". BBC News. 25 July 2016.

^ Florence Bergeaud-Blackler; Johan Fischer; John Lever (16 July 2015). Halal Matters: Islam, Politics and Markets in Global Perspective. Routledge. pp. 169–. ISBN 978-1-317-59739-1.

^ Pl Nyri; Danielle Tan (27 November 2016). Chinese Encounters in Southeast Asia: How People, Money, and Ideas from China Are Changing a Region. University of Washington Press. pp. 60–. ISBN 978-0-295-99931-9.

^ "Kyrgyzstan Eats: A Dungan Feast in Naryn". Eurasianet.org. Retrieved 17 October 2018.

^ Ildikó Bellér-Hann (2007). Situating the Uyghurs Between China and Central Asia. Ashgate Publishing, Ltd. pp. 192–193. ISBN 978-0-7546-7041-4.

^ Inner Asia. The White Horse Press for the Mongolia and Inner Asia Studies Unit at the University of Cambridge. 2000. p. 235.

^ Q. Edward Wang (26 January 2015). Chopsticks: A Cultural and Culinary History. Cambridge University Press. pp. 55–. ISBN 978-1-316-19436-2.

^ Andrea Lynn (30 September 2014). Queens: A Culinary Passport: Exploring Ethnic Cuisine in New York City's Most Diverse Borough. St. Martin's Press. ISBN 978-1-4668-5755-1.

^ Fuchs Christian; Lars Johanson; Éva Ágnes Csató Johanson (29 April 2015). The Turkic Languages. Routledge. pp. 204–. ISBN 978-1-136-82527-9.

^ Martine Robbeets (24 July 2015). Diachrony of Verb Morphology: Japanese and the Transeurasian Languages. De Gruyter. pp. 224–. ISBN 978-3-11-039994-3.

^ Mark Janse; Sijmen Tol (1 January 2003). Language Death and Language Maintenance: Theoretical, Practical and Descriptive Approaches. John Benjamins Publishing. pp. 93–. ISBN 90-272-4752-8.

^ Alexander Lubotsky; J. Schaeken; Jeroen Wiedenhof (January 2008). Evidence and Counter-evidence: General linguistics. Rodopi. pp. 157–. ISBN 978-90-420-2471-7.

External links

article on a Chinese Islamic restaurant in the San Francisco Bay area, San Francisco Chronicle.

chinaheritagequarterly.org Archived 2021-01-21 at the Wayback Machine

The Famous Dungan Noodles or Lyu Mian with Eight Seasoning Dishes![permanent dead link]

More pictures of the Dungan Cuisine

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

Chinese folk religion Ancestor veneration Folk ritual ministries Chinese salvationist religions

Ancestor veneration

Folk ritual ministries

Chinese salvationist religions

Confucianism

Taoism

Buddhism Chinese Buddhism Tibetan Buddhism Theravada Buddhism

Chinese Buddhism

Tibetan Buddhism

Theravada Buddhism

Christianity Protestant Roman Catholic Orthodox

Protestant

Roman Catholic

Orthodox

Falun Gong

Baháʼí Faith

Benzhuism

Bimoism

Dongbaism

Hinduism

Judaism

Manchu shamanism

Manichaeism

Miao folk religion

Mongolian folk religion

Qiang folk religion

Sikhism

Yao folk religion

Hong Kong

Northeast

Inner Mongolia

Freedom of religion in China

Heterodox teachings (Chinese law)

Irreligion in China

Regional Religious System

Ghosts in Chinese culture

Three Persian religions

Huichang Persecution of Buddhism

Tocharians

Western Regions Loulan Shule Yuezhi Kucha Karasahr Xiongnu Gaochang Khotan

Loulan

Yuezhi

Karasahr

Xiongnu

Gaochang

Khotan

Protectorate of the Western Regions

Chief Official of the Western Regions

Kingdom of Khotan

Sixteen Kingdoms

Gaochang

Göktürks First Western Eastern Second

Western

Eastern

Second

Protectorate General to Pacify the West Four Garrisons of Anxi

Four Garrisons of Anxi

Beiting Protectorate

Tibetan Empire

Uyghur Khaganate

Kara-Khanid Khanate Turkic settlement of the Tarim Basin

Turkic settlement of the Tarim Basin

Qara Khitai

Mongol Empire

* Chagatai Khanate

Moghulistan

Kara Del

Turpan Khanate

Yarkent Khanate

Dzungar Khanate Dzungar conquest of Altishahr Dzungar–Qing Wars Dzungar genocide

Dzungar conquest of Altishahr

Dzungar–Qing Wars

Dzungar genocide

Kumul Khanate

Qing rule Revolt of the Altishahr Khojas Afaqi Khoja revolts Holy War of the Seven Khojas General of Ili

Revolt of the Altishahr Khojas

Afaqi Khoja revolts Holy War of the Seven Khojas

Holy War of the Seven Khojas

General of Ili

Reconquest of Xinjiang

Xinjiang Wars

First East Turkestan Republic

Second East Turkestan Republic Ili Rebellion

Ili Rebellion

PRC incorporation

Xinjiang Province, People's Republic of China

Yi–Ta incident

Strike Hard Campaign Against Violent Terrorism

Altai Mountains

Junggar Basin Dzungaria

Dzungaria

Tian Shan

Tarim Basin Taklamakan Desert

Taklamakan Desert

Kunlun Mountains

Cities

Gurbantünggüt Desert

Kumtag Desert

Turpan Depression

Karakoram Mountains

Pamir Mountains

Hexi Corridor

Lanzhou–Xinjiang railway

Lanzhou–Xinjiang high-speed railway

Southern Xinjiang railway

Northern Xinjiang railway

Jinghe–Yining–Khorgos railway

Kuytun–Beitun railway

Ürümqi–Dzungaria railway

Hami–Lop Nur railway

Kashgar–Hotan railway

China Railway Ürümqi Group

Xinjiang University

Xinjiang Agricultural University

Xinjiang Medical University

Xinjiang University of Finance and Economics

Xinjiang Astronomical Observatory

Doppa Day

Meshrep gathering

Tocharian clothing

Dapanji

Sangza

Youtazi

Pamirdin

Tunurkawab

Chinese Islamic cuisine

Silk Road

China Western Development

Cotton industry National Cotton and Cotton Yarn Trading Center

National Cotton and Cotton Yarn Trading Center

Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps

Xinjiang Free-Trade Zone

Apak Khoja and Xiang Fei Tomb

Emin Minaret Mosque

Flaming Mountains

Jiaohe ruins

Gaochang

Grand Bazaar, Ürümqi

Id Kah Mosque

Karakul Lake

Kizil Caves

Niya ruins

Uyghur people

Xinjiang conflict

Migration to Xinjiang

Altishahr

Chinese Turkestan

East Turkestan

China–Afghanistan relations

China–India relations

China–Kazakhstan relations

China–Kyrgyzstan relations

China–Pakistan relations

China–Tajikistan relations

China–Turkey relations

History of the Uyghur people

Category

Commons

United States

Israel

# Beijing cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Beijing cuisine, also known as Jing cuisine, Mandarin cuisine and Peking cuisine and formerly as Beiping cuisine, is the local cuisine of Beijing, the national capital of China.

Background

As Beijing has been the capital of China for centuries, its cuisine is influenced by culinary traditions from all over China, but the style that has the greatest influence on Beijing cuisine is that of the eastern coastal province of Shandong. Beijing cuisine has itself, in turn, also greatly influenced other Chinese cuisines, particularly the cuisine of Liaoning, the Chinese imperial cuisine and the Chinese aristocrat cuisine.

Another tradition that influenced Beijing cuisine (as well as influenced by the latter itself) is the Chinese imperial cuisine that originated from the "Emperor's Kitchen" (御膳房; yùshànfáng), which referred to the cooking facilities inside the Forbidden City, where thousands of cooks from different parts of China showed their best culinary skills to please the imperial family and officials. Therefore, it is sometimes difficult to determine the actual origin of a dish as the term "Mandarin" is generalised and refers not only to Beijing, but other provinces as well. However, some generalisation of Beijing cuisine can be characterised as follows: Foods that originated in Beijing are often snacks rather than main courses, and they are typically sold by small shops or street vendors. There is emphasis on dark soy paste, sesame paste, sesame oil and scallions, and fermented tofu is often served as a condiment. In terms of cooking techniques, methods relating to different ways of frying are often used. There is less emphasis on rice as an accompaniment as compared to many other regions in China, as local rice production in Beijing is limited by the relatively dry climate.

Many dishes in Beijing cuisine that are served as main courses are derived from a variety of Chinese Halal foods, particularly lamb and beef dishes, as well as from Huaiyang cuisine.

Huaiyang cuisine has been praised since ancient times in China and it was a general practice for an official travelling to Beijing to take up a new post to bring along with him a chef specialising in Huaiyang cuisine. When these officials had completed their terms in the capital and returned to their native provinces, most of the chefs they brought along often remained in Beijing. They opened their own restaurants or were hired by wealthy locals. The imperial clan of the Ming dynasty, the House of Zhu, who had ancestry from Jiangsu Province, also contributed greatly in introducing Huaiyang cuisine to Beijing when the capital was moved from Nanjing to Beijing in the 15th century, because the imperial kitchen was mainly Huaiyang style. The element of traditional Beijing culinary and gastronomical cultures of enjoying artistic performances such as Beijing opera while dining directly developed from the similar practice in the culture of Jiangsu and Huaiyang cuisines.

Chinese Islamic cuisine is another important component of Beijing cuisine and was first prominently introduced when Beijing became the capital of the Yuan dynasty. However, the most significant contribution to the formation of Beijing cuisine came from Shandong cuisine, as most chefs from Shandong Province came to Beijing en masse during the Qing dynasty. Unlike the earlier two cuisines, which were brought by the ruling class such as nobles, aristocrats and bureaucrats and then spread to the general populace, the introduction of Shandong cuisine begun with serving the general populace, with much wider market segment, from wealthy merchants to the working class.

History

The Qing dynasty was a major period in the formation of Beijing cuisine. Before the Boxer Rebellion, the foodservice establishments in Beijing were strictly stratified by the foodservice guild. Each category of the establishment was specifically based on its ability to provide for a particular segment of the market. The top ranking establishments served nobles, aristocrats, and wealthy merchants and landlords, while lower ranking establishments served the populace of lower financial and social status. It was during this period when Beijing cuisine gained fame and became recognised by the Chinese culinary society, and the stratification of the foodservice was one of its most obvious characteristics as part of its culinary and gastronomic cultures during this first peak of its formation.

The official stratification was an integral part of the local culture of Beijing and it was not finally abolished officially after the end of the Qing dynasty, which resulted in the second peak in the formation of Beijing cuisine. Meals previously offered to nobles and aristocrats were made available to anyone who could afford them instead of being restricted only to the upper class. As chefs freely switched between jobs offered by different establishments, they brought their skills that further enriched and developed Beijing cuisine. Though the stratification of food services in Beijing was no longer effected by imperial laws, the structure more or less remained despite continuous weakening due to the financial background of the local clientele. The different classes are listed in the following subsections.

Zhuang

Zhuang (庄; 莊; zhuāng; 'village'), or zhuang zihao (庄字号; 莊字號; zhuāng zìhào; 'village brand') were the top-ranking foodservice establishments, not only in providing foods, but entertainment as well. The form of entertainment provided was usually Beijing opera, and establishments of this class always had long-term contracts with an opera troupe to perform onsite or contracts with famous performers, such as national-treasure-class performers, to perform onsite, though not on a daily basis. Establishments of this category only accepted customers who came as a group and ordered banquets by appointment, and the banquets provided by establishments of this category often included most, if not all tables, at the site. The bulk foodservice business was catering at customers' homes or other locations, often for birthdays, marriages, funerals, promotions and other important celebrations and festivals. When catering, these establishments not only provided what was on the menu, but fulfilled customers' requests.

Leng zhuangzi (冷庄子; 冷莊子; lěng zhuāngzǐ; 'cold village') lacked any rooms to host banquets, and thus their business was purely catering.

Tang (堂; táng; 'auditorium'), or tang zihao (堂字号; 堂字號; táng zìhào; 'auditorium brand'), are similar to zhuang establishments, but the business of these second-class establishments were generally evenly divided among onsite banquet hosting and catering (at customers' homes). Establishments of this class would also have long-term contracts with Beijing opera troupes to perform onsite, but they did not have long-term contracts with famous performers, such as national-treasure-class performers, to perform onsite on regular basis; however these top performers would still perform at establishments of this category occasionally. In terms of catering at the customers' sites, establishments of this category often only provided dishes strictly according to their menu.

Ting (厅; 廳; tīng; 'foyer'), or ting zihao (厅字号; 廳字號; tīng zìhào; 'foyer brand') are foodservice establishments which had more business in onsite banquet hosting than catering at customers' homes. For onsite banquet hosting, entertainment was still provided, but establishments of this category did not have long-term contracts with Beijing opera troupes, so that performers varied from time to time, and top performers usually did not perform here or at any lower-ranking establishments. For catering, different establishments of this category were incapable of handling significant catering on their own, but generally had to combine resources with other establishments of the same ranking (or lower) to do the job.

Yuan (园; 園; yuán; 'garden'), or yuan zihao (园字号; 園字號; yuán zìhào; 'garden brand') did nearly all their business in hosting banquets onsite. Entertainment was not provided on a regular basis, but there were stages built onsite for Beijing opera performers. Instead of being hired by the establishments like in the previous three categories, performers at establishments of this category were usually contractors who paid the establishment to perform and split the earnings according to a certain percentage. Occasionally, establishments of this category would be called upon to help cater at customers' homes, but had to work with others, never taking the lead as establishments like the ting.

Lou (楼; 樓; lóu; 'story', 'floor'), or lou zihao (楼字号; 樓字號; lóu zìhào; 'story brand') did the bulk of their business hosting banquets onsite by appointment. In addition, a smaller portion of the business was in serving different customers onsite on a walk-in basis. Occasionally, when catering at customers' homes, establishments of this category would only provide the few specialty dishes they were famous for.

Ju (居; jū; 'residence'), or ju zihao (居字号; 居字號; jū zìhào; 'residence brand') generally divided their business evenly into two areas: serving different customers onsite on a walk-in basis, and hosting banquets by appointment for customers who came as one group. Occasionally, when catering at the customers' homes, establishments of this category would only provide the few specialty dishes they were famous for, just like the lou. However, unlike those establishments, which always cooked their specialty dishes on location, establishment of this category would either cook on location or simply bring the already-cooked food to the location.

Zhai (斋; 齋; zhāi; 'study'), or zhai zihao (斋字号; 齋字號; zhāi zìhào; 'study brand') were mainly in the business of serving different customers onsite on a walk-in basis, but a small portion of their income did come from hosting banquets by appointment for customers who came as one group. Similar to the ju, when catering at customers’ homes, establishments of this category would also only provide the few specialty dishes they are famous for, but they would mostly bring the already-cooked dishes to the location, and would only cook on location occasionally.

Fang (坊; fǎng; 'workshop'), or fang zihao (坊字号; 坊字號; fǎng zìhào; 'workshop brand'). Foodservice establishments of this category generally did not offer the service of hosting banquets made by appointment for customers who came as one group, but instead, often only offered to serve different customers onsite on a walk-in basis. Establishments of this category or lower would not be called upon to perform catering at the customers' homes for special events.

Guan (馆; 館; guǎn; 'restaurant'), or guan zihao (馆字号; 館字號; guǎn zìhào; 'restaurant brand'). Foodservice establishments of this category mainly served different customers onsite on a walk-in basis, and in addition, a portion of the income would be earned from selling to-goes.

Dian (店; diàn; 'shop'), or dian zihao (店字号; 店字號; diàn zìhào; 'shop brand'). Foodservice establishments of this category had their own place, like all previous categories, but serving different customers to dine onsite on a walk-in basis only provided half of the overall income, while the other half came from selling to-goes.

Pu (铺; 鋪; pù; 'store'), or pu zihao (铺字号; 鋪字號; pù zìhào; 'store brand'). Foodservice establishments of this category ranked next to the last, and they were often named after the owners' last names. Establishments of this category had fixed spots of business for having their own places, but smaller than dian, and thus did not have tables, but only seats for customers. As a result, the bulk of the income of establishments of this category was from selling to-goes, while income earned from customers dining onsite only provided a small portion of the overall income.

Tan (摊; 攤; tān; 'stand'), or tan zihao (摊字号; 攤字號; tān zìhào; 'stand brand'). The lowest ranking foodservice establishments without any tables, and selling to-goes was the only form of business. In addition to name the food stand after the owners' last name or the food sold, these food stands were also often named after the owners' nicknames.

Notable dishes and street foods

Meat and poultry dishes

Fish and seafood dishes

Noodles (both vegetarian and non-vegetarian)

Pastries

Vegetarian

Beijing delicacies

Deep-fried pie

Soy bean curd

Restaurants known for Beijing cuisine

Numerous traditional restaurants in Beijing are credited with great contributions in the formation of Beijing cuisine, but many of them have gone out of business. However, some of them managed to survive until today, and some of them are:

Bai Kui (白魁): established in 1780

Bao Du Feng (爆肚冯): established in 1881, also known as Ji Sheng Long (金生隆)

Bianyifang: established in 1416, the oldest surviving restaurant in Beijing

Cha Tang Li (茶汤李), established in 1858

Dao Xiang Chun (稻香春): established in 1916

Dao Xian Cun (稻香村): established in 1895

De Shun Zhai (大顺斋): established in the early 1870s

Dong Lai Shun (东来顺): established in 1903

Dong Xin Shun (东兴顺): also known as Bao Du Zhang (爆肚张), established in 1883

Du Yi Chu (都一处): established in 1738

Dou Fu Nao Bai (豆腐脑白): established in 1877, also known as Xi Yu Zhai (西域斋)

En Yuan Ju (恩元居), established in 1929

Fang Sheng Zhai (芳生斋), also known as Nai Lao Wei (奶酪魏), established in 1857

Hong Bin Lou (鸿宾楼): established in 1853 in Tianjin, relocated to Beijing in 1955.

Jin Sheng Long (金生隆): established in 1846

Kao Rou Ji (烤肉季): established in 1828

Kao Rou Wan (烤肉宛): established in 1686

Liu Bi Ju (六必居) established in 1530

Liu Quan Ju (柳泉居): established in the late 1560s, the second oldest surviving restaurant in Beijing

Nan Lai Shun (南来顺): established in 1937

Nian Gao Qian (年糕钱): established in early 1880s

Quanjude (全聚德): established in 1864

Rui Bin Lou (瑞宾楼): originally established in 1876

Sha Guoo Ju (砂锅居), established in 1741

Tian Fu Hao (天福号): established in 1738

Tian Xing Ju (天兴居):, established in 1862

Tian Yuan Jian Yuan (天源酱园): established in 1869

Wang Zhi He (王致和): established in 1669

Wonton Hou (馄饨侯): established in 1949

Xi De Shun (西德顺): also known as Bao Du Wang (爆肚王), established in 1904

Xi Lai Shun (西来顺): established in 1930

Xian Bing Zhou (馅饼周): established in 1910s, also known as Tong Ju Guan (同聚馆)

Xiao Chang Chen (小肠陈): established in the late 19th century

Xin Yuan Zhai (信远斋), established in 1740

Yang Tou Man (羊头马): established in the late 1830s

Yi Tiao Long (壹条龙): established in 1785

References

^ a b c d e f g h Wang, Juling, Famous Dishes of Famous Restaurant in Beijing, Golden Shield Publishing House in Beijing, December, 2000, ISBN 7-5082-1400-5

^ a b c d e f Xu, Chengbei, Ancient Beijing, Customs of the General Populace of Ancient Beijing, Jiangsu Fine Arts Publishing House in Nanjing, September, 1999, ISBN 7-5344-0971-3

^ a b c d e f Hua Mengyang and Zhang Hongjie, Lives of the residents of Ancient Beijing, Shandong Pictorial Publishing House in Jinan, June, 2000, ISBN 7-80603-452-8

^ a b c d e f g h Du, Fuxiang and Guo, Yunhui, Famous Restaurants in China, China Tourism Publishing House in Beijing, 1982

^ "Beijing Halal | China Heritage Quarterly". www.chinaheritagequarterly.org. Retrieved 2018-01-23.

^ a b c Bai, Zhongjian, Legends of Historical Business in Beijing, China Tourism Publishing House in Beijing, 1993, ISBN 7-5032-0887-2

^ Lo, Eileen Yin-Fei (1999). "Chinese Classics", The Chinese Kitchen, calligraphy by San Yan Wong, 1st Edition, New York, New York: William Morrow and Company, 416. ISBN 0-688-15826-9.

^ Ma, Jing, Beijing Culinary Guide, China Light Industry Publishing House in Beijing, January 2002, ISBN 7-5019-3559-9/TS.2143

^ Hou, Shiheng, Historical Business in Beijing, 1st Edition, Chinese Environmental Science Publishing House in Beijing, 1991, ISBN 7-80010-765-5

^ Hou, Shiheng, Historical Business in Beijing, Chinese Foreign Trade Publishing House in Beijing, 1998, ISBN 7-80004-535-8

^ Xu, Chengbei, Ancient Beijing, Change of Qianmen, Jiangsu Fine Arts Publishing House in Nanjing, September, 2000, ISBN 7-5344-0969-1

^ Yin, Qingmin, Historical Business Establishments in Beijing, Shining Daily Publishing House in Beijing, 2004, ISBN 7-80145-812-5

^ Zhou, Jianduan, Old Memory of Beijing, Social Life and Customs, Southern Cantonese Publishing House in Hong Kong, 1987, ISBN 962-04-0580-3

Aiwowo

Bing guo

Chao hongguo

Chaogan

Chatang

Douzhi

Erguotou

Fuling jiabing

Hot pot

Instant-boiled mutton

Jingjiang rousi

Jiaoquan

Kaikouxiao

Liangfen

Luzhu huoshao

Luosi zhuan

Misandao

Mizhi hulu

Beijing yogurt

Peking duck

Qingtang wanzi

Ruanzha liji

Spring pancake

Xigua lao

Xingren doufu

Yinsi juan

Yundou juan

Zhajiangmian

Category

Commons

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

Angolan

Central African Republic

Chadian

Ethiopian and Eritrean

Gabonese

Libyan

Moroccan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Togolese

Tunisian

São Tomé and Príncipe

Seychelles

Western Saharan

Anguillian

Jamaican

Mexican

United States Hawaiian Italian-American Jewish-American New Orleans Regional dishes Regional beverages Southern United States

Hawaiian

Italian-American

Jewish-American

New Orleans

Regional dishes

Regional beverages

Southern United States

Argentine

Brazilian

Colombian

Ecuadorian

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Venezuelan

Azerbaijani

Bangladeshi

Burmese

Caucasian

Chinese Beijing Sichuan Tibetan

Beijing

Sichuan

Tibetan

Filipino

Indian

Iranian

Indonesian

Israeli

Japanese

Jordan

Korean North Korean

North Korean

Malaysian

Maldivian

Nepalese

Palestinian

Peranakan

Russian

Singaporean

Turkish

Vietnamese

Azerbaijani

Caucasian

English

French

German

Hungarian Typical Hungarian dishes

Typical Hungarian dishes

Italian Sicilian

Sicilian

Liechtensteiner

Maltese

Norwegian

Polish

Portuguese

Romanian

Russian

Scottish

Spanish

Turkish

Ukrainian Crimean Tatar

Crimean Tatar

Australian

New Zealand

Jewish

National dishes

American

British

Indian

Pakistani

American

Armenian

British Cornish

Cornish

English

French

German

Italian

Polish

Spanish

Syrian

Filipino

French fry accompaniments

Indian

Indonesian

Japanese

Pakistani

American

Argentine

Bangladeshi

Brazilian

British

Chinese

Filipino

French

German

Indian

Indonesian

Italian

Japanese

Korean Tteok

Pakistani

Polish

Romanian

Russian

Spanish

Sri Lankan

Taiwanese

Turkish

Chinese

French

German

Indonesian

Italian

Japanese

Pakistani

Spanish

Snack foods by country Indian Indonesian Japanese

Indian

Indonesian

Japanese

American sandwiches

Foods with religious symbolism

Indonesian noodles

Pakistani meat

Pakistani rice

Pakistani vegetable

Puddings (savoury)

Vietnamese noodles

Vietnamese specialities

Baked goods Twice-baked

Twice-baked

Casseroles

Deep fried

Smoked

Steamed

Fermented Soy products

Soy products

Food pastes

Garnishes

Gravies

Instant

Pickled Pickled fruits

Pickled fruits

Rolled

Sauces Dessert sauces Fish sauces Hot sauces Instant sauces

Dessert sauces

Fish sauces

Hot sauces

Instant sauces

Spreads

Stuffed dishes

Almond

Breads bread dishes Buns Flatbreads Quick breads Rolls Sourdough breads Sweet breads

bread dishes

Flatbreads

Quick breads

Sourdough breads

Sweet breads

Buckwheat

Crackers

Dumplings

Fried dough

Legume Chickpea Peanut

Chickpea

Peanut

Noodles Noodle dishes Fried noodle dishes Ramen

Noodle dishes

Fried noodle dishes

Pancakes

Pasta Pasta dishes

Pasta dishes

Rice Fried rice Rice cakes Rice pudding

Fried rice

Rice cakes

Rice pudding

Rice and beans

Sesame seed

Butter dishes

Cheese dishes Fondues

Fondues

Cheeses Brined

Brined

Yogurt-based

Avocado

Banana

Broccoli

Cabbage

Carrot

Cassava

Cherry

Eggplant

Garlic

Potato French fry

French fry

Salads Arab Thai

Soy-based

Squash and pumpkin

Strawberry

Sweet potato

Tomato

Fish head

Fish stews

Fried fish

Herring

Raw fish

Salmon

Shrimp

Sushi and sashimi

Barbecue

Beef Shredded beef Steak Veal

Shredded beef

Chicken

Egg Scrambled eggs

Scrambled eggs

Hamburgers

Hot dogs

Kebabs

Meatball

Mixed grill

Pork Bacon Ham dishes Hams

Ham dishes

Sausages Sausage dishes

Sausage dishes

Cheese

Fish and seafood

Vegetable

Candies

Chocolate bars

Chocolate-covered

Cookies Sandwich cookie Shortbread

Sandwich cookie

Shortbread

Desserts Custard

Custard

Doughnuts

Pastries Choux pastry Poppy seed

Choux pastry

Poppy seed

Pies, tarts and flans

Puddings

Ancient

Bacon substitutes

Brand name snacks

Breakfast Cereals Drinks

Cereals

Drinks

Brunch

Christmas

Chutneys

Coconut

Coconut milk

Coffee

Comfort

Hangover remedies

Hors d'oeuvre Tapas

Made from maple

Mushroom

Pastries

Pies, tarts and flans

Porridges

Relishes

Sandwiches

Spit-roasted

Street

Syrups

Tortilla-based

Traditional

Food portal

Category: Lists of foods

United States

Latvia

Israel

Yale LUX

# Chinese aristocrat cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Chinese aristocrat cuisine (Chinese: 官府菜; pinyin: guānfǔ cài) traces its origin to the Ming and Qing dynasties when imperial officials stationed in Beijing brought their private chefs and such different varieties of culinary styles mixed and developed over time to form a unique breed of its own, and thus the Chinese aristocrat cuisine is often called private cuisine. The current Chinese aristocrat cuisine is a mixture of Shandong cuisine, Huaiyang cuisine and Cantonese cuisine. As Beijing was the capital of the last three Chinese dynasties, most of the Chinese aristocrat cuisine originated in Beijing. Currently, there are a total of nine varieties of Chinese aristocrat cuisine.

Confucian cuisine

Confucius has been deified and glorified in Chinese history, and has been posthumously awarded numerous ranks and titles by various Chinese emperors in Chinese history. The descendants of Confucius enjoyed the special privilege and status rewarded by the Chinese imperial dynasties, and Confucian cuisine is the cuisine developed by these descendants of Confucius as a result of such special social status. The special social status is further strengthened by the fact that in Qing Dynasty, one of the Confucius' offspring married to Qianlong Emperor's daughter. The majority of the dishes of the Confucian cuisine can directly trace their origin to Qianlong era.

The characteristics of Confucian cuisine includes a wide selection of ingredients, seasonal harvest available, emphasis on freshness and nutritious value, extravagant and lavish banquets in strict social stratification order, and artistic presentation of each dish of visual luxury. The most luxurious banquet of Confucian cuisine consists of a hundred ninety-six dishes served in four hundred and four tableware, most of which made from silver. The number one dish of Confucian cuisine is the edible bird's nest, for which Confucian cuisine is most famous. The edible bird's nest is the dish highest rank of dish to honor guests. Confucian cuisine are presented in several different classes banquets for different level of extravagance.

Dongpo cuisine

Dongpo cuisine (Dong-po-cai, 东坡菜) was originally created by Su Shi, the famous Chinese writer, poet, painter, calligrapher, pharmacologist, gastronomist, and a statesman of the Song dynasty, mostly during his years of exile. Named after Su Shi's art name, the most famous dish of Dongpo cuisine is perhaps Dongpo pork.

The most frequently used cooking methods includes simmer, stew, and roast, with the original flavor of the material retained. Because Dongpo cuisine was created in his exile era, the food consisted of common materials, as opposed to the expensive and rare materials that are more commonly used in other styles of Chinese aristocrat cuisine. Another characteristic of Dongpo cuisine is that the origin of most of the dishes can be traced back to the Su Shi's literary work. The other important characteristic of Dongpo cuisine is that the heavy use of gravy and sauce.

Li family's cuisine

Li family's cuisine (Li-Jia-Cai, 厉家菜) is developed from Chinese imperial cuisine, and it is a fusion of Chinese imperial cuisine and Beijing cuisine, supplemented by dishes created by their own. Contrary to the rest styles of Chinese aristocrat cuisine that are developed from and based on regional cuisines of southern China, Li family's cuisine is developed from and based on northern regional cuisines of northern China: The original creator of Li family's cuisine, Mr. Li Shun-Qing (厉顺庆), was a Qing Dynasty subject with rank of lieutenant general (都统, Dutong), in charge of Empress Dowager Cixi's Imperial Household Department, and he memorized the menus of Empress Dowager's meals at work, and then wrote down after returning home, and the menus were kept in the family for more than a century.

One of the most significant characteristics of Li family's cuisine is that all dishes are made from natural ingredients, without using any artificial or synthetic material/ingredients/chemical/colors. In addition to not using any artificial or synthetic material/ingredients/chemical/colors, all food are cooked by traditional methods without using any modern cookware, instead, everything is cooked on traditional Chinese hearth. Another characteristic of Li family's cuisine is that there is not any menu so customers cannot place any order. Instead, customers must eat whatever is available when the restaurant serves. Only banquets are available, which includes fifteen appetizers, seven main courses and two sweets.

Mei family's cuisine

Mei family's cuisine (Mei-Jia-Cai, 梅家菜) is created by Mr. Wang Shou-Shan (王寿山), the personal chef of the most famous Peking opera artists in modern Chinese theater, Mr. Mei Lanfang. Mei family's cuisine is a fusion of Huaiyang cuisine and another style of Chinese aristocrat cuisine, Tan family's cuisine.

There are approximately six hundred dishes available in Mei family's cuisine, none of the dishes are flavored heavily, and each dish is not large in term of size. Another important characteristic of Mei family's cuisine is that dishes are seasonal because ingredients used are harvested according to the season, and cooking methods used also vary according to seasonal change of weather.

Red Chamber cuisine

Red Chamber cuisine (Hong-Lou-Cai, 红楼菜) is the cuisine described in Dream of the Red Chamber, with a total of more than 180 dishes. Red Chamber cuisine is mainly developed from Huaiyang cuisine, supplemented by Nanjing cuisine.

Restoration attempts of Red Chamber cuisine begun in the 1970s, and after nearly four decades of research, various places have succeeded, with the most cuisine served in banquets (Red Chamber banquet, or Hong-Lou-Yan, 红楼宴) by restaurants in Beijing, Yangzhou, Taiwan and Macau. The complete banquet usually includes forty-eight dishes, with the simpler banquet of Macau only serving thirty-nine dishes. The most famous Red Chamber cuisine is presented by Jin-Lai-Yu-Xuan (来今雨轩) restaurant in Zhongshan Park in Beijing, and a total of more than five dozen dishes are offered. Mr. Sun Da-Li (孙大力), the head chef of Lai-Ji-Yu-Xuan was the first chef in Beijing to research and restore Red Chamber cuisine back in 1983, and most of the cooking methods he developed for the cuisine have since become the standard for Red Chamber cuisine.

Suiyuan cuisine

Suiyuan cuisine (Sui-Yuan-Cai, 随园菜) was created by Chinese scholar, poet, writer and gastronomist Yuan Mei of Qing Dynasty, and recorded in his work Suiyuan shidan, known in English as either the Food Lists of the Garden of Contentment, Menus from the Garden of Contentment, or Recipes from Sui Garden.

Suiyuan cuisine is mostly developed from Nanjing cuisine at the time, which is supplemented by the dishes developed from Zhejiang cuisine, Anhui cuisine and other regional sub-styles of Jiangsu cuisine. The most important trait of Suiyuan cuisine is the emphasis on the main ingredient of each dish, so that each dish has its own unique taste, thus none of the dishes would have blended/mixed tastes of multiple flavors. Other important traits of Suiyuan cuisine included the strict selection of ingredients/materials used and careful cooking methods, but the cuisine was subsequently lost in history for various reasons. In the 1980s, the Mr. Xue Wen-Long (薛文龙), the head chef of Jinling Hotel, successfully restored all 326 dishes recorded in Suiyuan Shidan after two decades of research. Another great contributor of the restoration of Suiyuan cuisine is Mr. Bai Ji-Chang (白常继), the head chef of Beijing North and South Catering Limited Company (南北一家餐饮有限公司), who also further developed several dozen more dishes based on Suiyuan Shidan, and by the end of 2016, a total of over 380 dishes of Suiyuan cuisine have become available.

Tan family's cuisine

Tan family's cuisine is the most representative of Chinese aristocrat cuisine mainly based on and developed from Cantonese cuisine, and it is a fusion of Cantonese cuisine and regional cuisines of northern China, with more than 200 dishes available today.

The most significant characteristic of Tan family's cuisine is its taste; the salinity and sweetness of the dishes is moderate, fitting the taste of both northern and southern Chinese. Like Cantonese, the original flavor of the food is also emphasized in Tan family's cuisine. The cooking method most frequently used includes roast, simmer, stew and steam. Tan family's cuisine is famous for shark fin, abalone, and sea cucumbers.

Yunlin cuisine

Yunlin cuisine (Yun-Lin-Cai, 云林菜) was originally created by the famous 12th-century Chinese painter and gastronomist Ni Zan, record in his work titled A Collection of Diet System of Yunlin Hall (云林堂饮食制度集). A total of forty-two dishes were recorded in Ni Zan's work, and by the end of 2014, sixteen dishes of the forty-two have been successfully restored.

Yunlin cuisine is developed from Wuxi cuisine and inherits its characteristic of sweet taste and heavy usage of oil and sauce. However, Yunlin cuisine emphasizes the other characteristic, which is freshness, and the cooking method frequently used includes steam, boil, braise, and fast boil in hot water. To meet the demand of the modern people, such as health concerns such as diabetics, some of the restored dishes have been modified, such as the reduction of sweetness by using less sugar. Another characteristic of Yunlin cuisine is the importance of the adding seasoning in a strict order to obtain the layered tastes.

Zhili (Chinese) aristocrat cuisine

Zhili (Chinese) aristocrat cuisine (直隶官府菜) originated in Baoding in Ming dynasty, matured in Qing dynasty, with a history of approximately six-hundred years. The flavor of dishes of Zhili (Chinese) aristocrat cuisine is generally slightly salty.

References

^ a b c d e 徐文苑 (2005). Origin of Confucian cuisine. 清华大学出版社有限公司. ISBN 9787810823708. Retrieved January 1, 2006.

^ a b c d "Origin of Confucian cuisine". Archived from the original on January 18, 2017. Retrieved October 27, 2016.

^ a b 焦明耀 (January 2008). Characteristics of Confucian cuisine. 中国轻工业出版社. ISBN 9787501959280. Retrieved January 1, 2008.

^ a b c "Dongbo cuisine". Archived from the original on December 23, 2016. Retrieved July 24, 2014.

^ a b "Characteristics of Dongpo cuisine". Retrieved July 24, 2014.

^ a b c "Dongpo cuisine characteristics". Archived from the original on December 23, 2016. Retrieved July 21, 2011.

^ "Li family's cuisine". Archived from the original on December 23, 2016. Retrieved July 1, 2016.

^ a b c "Characteristics of Li family's cuisine". Retrieved January 22, 2001.

^ a b c d "Origin of Li family's cuisine". Retrieved December 22, 2016.

^ "Mei family's cuisine". Retrieved January 9, 2015.

^ a b c d "Origin of Mei family's cuisine". Archived from the original on December 23, 2016. Retrieved January 9, 2015.

^ "Food culture of Red Chamber cuisine". Archived from the original on January 18, 2017. Retrieved November 19, 2006.

^ "cuisine". Retrieved November 16, 2011.

^ a b c "Father of Red Chamber cuisine". Archived from the original on January 18, 2017. Retrieved August 19, 2016.

^ "Red Chamber banquet". Retrieved January 16, 2017.

^ Dunlop, Fuchsia (2008), Shark's Fin and Sichuan Pepper: A Sweet-Sour Memoir of Eating in China, W. W. Norton & Company, ISBN 9780393332889

^ Gunde, Richard (2002), Culture and Customs of China, Greenwood Publishing Group, ISBN 9780313308765

^ Waley-Cohen, Joanna (Winter 2007), "Celebrated Cooks of China's Past", Flavor and Fortune, 14 (4), Greenwood Publishing Group, archived from the original on 2015-04-02 – via Institute For The Advancement Of Science & Art Of Chinese Cuisine

^ a b c "Suiyuan cuisine". Archived from the original on December 23, 2016. Retrieved November 8, 2015.

^ a b c "Characteristics of Suiyuan cuisine". Archived from the original on December 23, 2016. Retrieved September 17, 2015.

^ a b "Suiyuan cuisine dishes". Archived from the original on January 18, 2017. Retrieved November 15, 2016.

^ a b c "Tan family's cuisine". Retrieved November 12, 2014.

^ a b "Yunlin cuisine". Archived from the original on 2016-12-23. Retrieved October 30, 2014.

^ a b "Yunlin cuisine characteristics". Archived from the original on December 23, 2016. Retrieved October 30, 2014.

^ "Zhili (Chinese) aristocrat cuisine". Sohu. Retrieved April 14, 2017.

# Chinese imperial cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Chinese imperial cuisine is derived from a variety of cooking styles of the regions in China, mainly from the cuisines of Shandong and Jiangsu provinces. The style originated from various Emperors' Kitchen and the Empress Dowagers' Kitchen, and it is similar to Beijing cuisine which it heavily influenced.

Imperial cuisine was served mainly to the emperors, their empresses and concubines, and the imperial family. The characteristics of the Chinese imperial cuisine are the elaborate cooking methods and the strict selection of raw materials, which are often extremely expensive, rare or complicated in preparation. Visual presentation is also very important, so the colour and the shape of the dish must be carefully arranged. The most famous Chinese imperial cuisine restaurants are both located in Beijing: Fang Shan (仿膳; fǎngshàn) in Beihai Park and Ting Li Ting (聽鸝廳; tīng lí tīng) in the Summer Palace.

Styles and tastes of Chinese imperial cuisine vary from dynasty to dynasty. Every dynasty has its own distinguishing features. The two famous styles of Chinese imperial cuisine are from the Ming and Qing dynasties. Many famous dishes emerged in these dynasties, such as Wensi tofu and Peking duck.

History

In the history of Chinese cuisine, Chinese imperial cuisine experienced a development process which changed from simple to exquisite. Through the changing of dynasties, Chinese imperial cuisine was continually changing, improving and self-completing. Chinese imperial food originated around the Zhou dynasty (c. 11th century – 476 BCE). Emperors used their power to collect best cuisines and best cooks from throughout the country. Therefore, from the Chinese people's perspective, imperial cuisine represented a dynasty's best cuisine.

A complete system for imperial cuisine was developed which included procurement and diets preparation. Every process of making and serving imperial cuisine was done in a fixed order according to the "eating principles". Many famous dishes were developed through creating imperial food such as the six cereals stew which included rice, millet, broomcorn, sorghum, wheat and wild rice.

Imperial cuisine was closely related to preserving health. Several hundred writings about using food and diet therapy for better health have appeared throughout Chinese history. For example, The Health Building of the People in the Song Dynasty, by Song Xu, the Gentlemen's Remark on Diets, by Chen Jiru, and the History of the Ming Palace - Preferences for Diets, by Liu Ruoyu in the Ming dynasty. Most of these books about diet therapy were written by scholars, literati, medical specialists or historians. Cooking and diet therapy to maintain good health formed an important part of Chinese imperial cuisine and Chinese dietetic culture.

Although only the imperial family was authorised to consume imperial cuisine, Chinese imperial cuisine comprised the dietetic culture of the Chinese palaces. The raw materials of imperial cuisines were provided by peasants, herders, and fisherman. The kitchen utensils were made by craftsmen. Imperial cuisine can also represent the efforts of the cooking staff who provided the service, civil officials who named the dishes, and protocol officials who drafted the dietary and culinary principles. Chinese imperial cuisine is a valuable part of Chinese traditional cuisine and cultural heritage.

Imperial cuisine in the Ming dynasty

Imperial cuisine in the Ming dynasty was mostly cooked with the flavours of southern China because of the preferences of Zhu Yuanzhang, the founder of the Ming dynasty. The cuisine in the Ming palace totally changed the Mongolian style of food served during the Mongol-led Yuan dynasty. The imperial cuisine of the Ming dynasty had one important characteristic, which was to maintain good health. The emperors of the Ming dynasty paid great attention to maintaining their health by eating healthy food. The menu of imperial cuisine changed daily and dishes were not repeated. Imperial cuisine of the Ming dynasty was mainly grain-based. Therefore, meat and bean products were not as popular as they were in the former dynasties. In the Qing dynasty, a famous dish was sweet potatoes. Maize and chili peppers were also introduced in around the mid-16th century. Other famous dishes including shark's fin soup and edible bird's nest also gained their fame during this period. Those two dishes were introduced to China by the explorer Zheng He in the early Ming dynasty. While these two dishes were becoming examples of extravagant dishes, sea cucumbers and prawns were also brought into China. Many famous cooks and chefs such as Song Wusao and Wang Eryu emerged in the Ming dynasty.

Popular dishes

Pekin duck originated in the Southern and Northern Dynasties (420–589 CE), specifically originated in Nanjing. Roasted duck was first served as a dish in imperial cuisine during the Yuan dynasty. It developed fully and became an important part of imperial cuisine menus during the Ming dynasty. In contemporary society, Peking roasted duck has entered international cuisine. Peking roasted duck was famous because of its crispy skin and the juicy meat which left a deep impression on people eating it for the first time. Since the imperial era, the dish is admired for its thin, crispy skin sliced in front of the diners by the cook. There are unique techniques to serving and eating Peking duck for maximum enjoyment of its taste.

Imperial cuisine in the Qing dynasty

Chinese imperial cuisine in the Qing dynasty was developed basing on the traditional diet of the Manchu ethnic group and Shandong cuisine. The famous Manchu Han Imperial Feast was created during this dynasty. There was a special organisation, the Imperial Kitchen, within the Qing imperial palace which was responsible for creating and making imperial cuisine for the emperor. The Imperial Kitchen was managed by the General Office of Internal Affairs. During the reign of the Qianlong Emperor (r. 1735–1796), the Imperial Kitchen was divided into the Internal Kitchen and the External Kitchen. The Internal Kitchen had departments for meat dishes, vegetables, roasting, baking and rice cooking. The External Kitchen prepared the palace banquets, feasts and sacrificial rites. During the Qing dynasty, the rites for the meals, the number of people, and the use, cost, variety and quality of sumptuous courses at each meal were the greatest of all the dynasties in China.

Popular dishes

Dezhou braised chicken is a traditional dish from Dezhou City, Shandong Province and it is named after its place of origin. When the Qianlong Emperor travelled to Dezhou City, a Han Chinese family made braised chicken for him. The emperor thought highly of this dish and praised it as "a wonder of all cuisine". After eating Dezhou braised chicken, the Qianlong Emperor ordered that this dish be included in the menu of imperial cuisine. Dezhou braised chicken features red glossy skin, tender texture, aromatic smell, and a juicy taste.

Wensi tofu is a meal in Jiangsu cuisine. It is a soup made of finely shredded tofu and different ingredients of different colours, such as carrots and cucumbers. This dish represents the typical work of knife skill of a chef from Yangzhou because a chef needs to cut a square of tofu into more than 5,000 pieces in order to make this soup.

During the reign of the Qianlong Emperor, there was a monk by the name of Wensi, who was famous for making vegetarian dishes, particularly those with tofu. He created this soup which ingredients included tender tofu, dried daylily, and black fungus. This soup soon became well known throughout the region as "Wensi Tofu". The Qianlong Emperor tried this soup and highly appreciated it. Wensi tofu then added by the emperor to the menu of imperial cuisine.

Styles

There are currently (as of 2017) eight styles of Chinese imperial cuisines of different Chinese dynasties have been restored:

Chinese imperial cuisine of the Qin and Han dynasties (秦漢菜): Restored by Qujiangchun (曲江春) Restaurant in Xi'an based on records in ancient Chinese texts, including more than a dozen dishes.

Chinese imperial cuisine of the Tang dynasty (唐朝宮廷菜/仿唐宴): Based on Wei Juyuan’s Shao-Wei Banquet Menu (燒尾宴食單), restaurants in Xi’an such as Tang Music Hall (唐樂宫) restored many dishes of Chinese imperial cuisine of the Tang dynasty.

Chinese imperial cuisine of the Northern Song dynasty (北宋宮廷菜/仿北宋宴): Chinese imperial cuisine of the Northern Song dynasty restored by restaurants in Kaifeng such as You-Yi-Xin (又一新) and Sun-Yang-Zheng-Dian (孫羊正店).

Chinese imperial cuisine of the Southern Song dynasty (南宋宮廷菜/仿南宋宴): Chinese imperial cuisine of the Southern Song dynasty restored by restaurants in Hangzhou such as Southern Grand Hotel of Hangzhou (杭州南方大酒家) and Hangzhou Bagua Building (杭州八卦大樓).

Chinese imperial cuisine of Dunhuang (敦煌宮廷菜/敦煌宴): Chinese imperial cuisine of Dunhuang restored by restaurants in Dunhuang such as Dunhuang Hotel (乾隆禦宴) and Dunhuang Villa (敦煌山莊).

Qianlong era imperial cuisine (of the mid Qing dynasty) (乾隆御宴): Chinese imperial cuisine of the mid Qing dynasty restored by restaurants in Yangzhou such as Yangzhou Western Garden Grand Hotel (揚州西苑大酒店), with dished prepared according to menus of imperial banquets held by the Qianlong Emperor during his trips to southern China.

Chinese imperial cuisine of the late Qing dynasty (晚清宮廷菜): Chinese imperial cuisine of late Qing dynasty prepared for Empress Dowager Cixi. Restaurants in Beijing such as Fangshan Restaurant (仿膳飯莊) and Ting Li Ting (聽鷂廳) restaurant, and restaurants in Shenyang such as Shenyang Imperial Cuisine Restaurant (瀋陽禦膳酒樓) restored this Chinese imperial cuisine based on menus of the imperial kitchens of the Forbidden City and Summer Palace, as well other records.

Chinese imperial cuisine of Chengde (塞外宫廷菜): Chinese imperial cuisine of the Qing dynasty prepared at Chengde Mountain Resort during the emperors' annual summer trips to Chengde. This Chinese imperial cuisine differs from other styles of Chinese imperial cuisines in that the main ingredients is mostly beef, mutton and lamb, along with meat from game.

See also

Shandong cuisine

Jiangsu cuisine

Beijing cuisine

Peking Duck

Dezhou braised chicken

Shark's fin soup

Edible bird's nest

References

^ "The History of Chinese Imperial Food". Beijing Tourism. Beijing.com.cn. Archived from the original on 2016-03-03. Retrieved 2014-11-12.

^ a b c d "The History of Chinese Imperial Food". China.org.cn.

^ a b "Premodern Chinese Food. Chinese Culinary History before the Republic of China". WHKMLA. 2 December 2024.

^ Xu, Song. The Health Building of the People in the Song Dynasty.

^ "The History of Chinese Imperial Food". China Culture. Kaleidoscope.cultural-China.com. Archived from the original on 2014-10-10. Retrieved 2014-11-12.

^ "Chinese Imperial Food-Imperial Food in the Ming Dynasty". Acutimes. Archived from the original on 2014-10-28. Retrieved 2014-10-28.

^ Tingquan, Zhang (1998). Chinese Imperial Cuisines and Eating Secrets (Chinese/English ed.). Panda Books. ISBN 978-7507103762.

^ "Imperial Food in the Ming Dynasty". China.org.cn.

^ "Peking Duck". China Culture. Retrieved 17 May 2023.

^ "Peking Duck". China Culture. Retrieved 17 May 2023.

^ "WANDA REALM BEIJING". Travel China Inc. Archived from the original on 2014-12-24. Retrieved 2014-11-12.

^ Jacqueline M. Newman. Qian-Long: Qing Emperor and His Foods. FAVOR & FORTUNE. 2008;15(1): 14–33.

^ "Dezhou Braised Chicken". China Today.

^ "Dezhou Braised Chicken". China Culture. Retrieved 17 May 2023.

^ "Famous Yangzhou dishes". english.cntv.cn. Archived from the original on 2014-11-12. Retrieved 2014-11-12.

^ "JiangNing Clubhouse". Jiang Ni Hui Guan. Archived from the original on 2016-03-04. Retrieved 2014-11-12.

^ "Wensi Tofu". China Today.

^ "Chinese imperial cuisine of Qin and Han Dynasties". Archived from the original on 2018-01-27. Retrieved 2017-02-06.

^ "Chinese imperial cuisine of Tang dynasty". Archived from the original on 2021-01-02. Retrieved 2017-02-06.

^ "Restored Chinese imperial cuisine of Tang dynasty". Archived from the original on 2018-01-27. Retrieved 2017-02-06.

^ Tang dynasty Chinese imperial cuisine

^ "Restored Tang dynasty banquet". Archived from the original on 2017-02-07. Retrieved 2017-02-06.

^ Chinese imperial cuisine of Northern Song dynasty

^ "Northern Song dynasty Chinese imperial cuisine". Archived from the original on 2007-12-01. Retrieved 2017-02-06.

^ "Southern Song dynasty Chinese imperial cuisine". Archived from the original on 2017-02-07. Retrieved 2017-02-06.

^ Chinese imperial cuisine of Southern Song dynasty

^ "Chinese imperial cuisine of Dunhuang". Archived from the original on 2017-02-07. Retrieved 2017-02-06.

^ "Dunhuang Chinese imperial cuisine". Archived from the original on 2017-02-08. Retrieved 2017-02-06.

^ Qianlong’s Chinese imperial cuisine (of mid Qing dynasty)

^ "Cixi's Chinese imperial cuisine (of late Qing dynasty)". Archived from the original on 2016-03-03. Retrieved 2014-11-12.

^ Chinese imperial cuisine of Chengde

External links

The History of Chinese Imperial Food. China.org.cn.

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

# Liaoning cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Liaoning cuisine is derived from the native cooking styles of the Liaoning Province in China. It is the most famous Northeastern Chinese cuisine.

Characteristic features

The main characteristics of Liaoning cuisine is that it is colorful, tastes are strong, food is soft, and one dish has many flavors/tastes, however, the sweet taste and the salty taste are very distinct.

Some dishes include pickled Chinese cabbage stir-fried with vermicelli, chicken and mushroom stew, lamb kebabs, "malatang" (literally, spicy and hot) soup, stewed chicken with mushrooms, stewed catfish with eggplant, stewed pork with beans, and sliced potatoes with chili.

Since the province shares a border with North Korea, there are dishes similar to Korean cuisine, as well as a large Korean population. The food of Dalian is famed for consuming jellyfish and sea cucumbers by being a coastal city.

Notable dishes

See also

Northeastern Chinese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

Jilin cuisine

References

^ "Regional Chinese Food Guide To Los Angeles". KCET. 2015-02-11. Retrieved 2021-09-23.

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

This article related to Chinese cuisine is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

# Teochew cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Teochew cuisine, also known as Chiuchow cuisine, Chaozhou cuisine or Teo-swa cuisine, originated from the Chaoshan region in the eastern part of China's Guangdong Province, which includes the cities of Chaozhou, Shantou and Jieyang. Teochew cuisine bears more similarities to that of Fujian cuisine, particularly Southern Min cuisine, due to the similarity of Teochew's and Fujian's culture, language, and their geographic proximity to each other. However, Teochew cuisine is also influenced by Cantonese cuisine in its style and technique.

Background

Teochew cuisine is well known for its seafood and vegetarian dishes. Its use of flavouring is much less heavy-handed than most other Chinese cuisines and depends much on the freshness and quality of the ingredients for taste and flavour. As a delicate cuisine, oil is not often used in large quantities and there is a relatively heavy emphasis on poaching, steaming and braising, as well as the common Chinese method of stir-frying. Teochew cuisine is also known for serving congee (糜; mí; or mue), in addition to steamed rice or noodles with meals. The Teochew mue is rather different from the Cantonese counterpart, being very watery with the rice sitting loosely at the bottom of the bowl, while the Cantonese dish is more a thin gruel.

Authentic Teochew restaurants serve very strong oolong tea called Tieguanyin in very tiny cups before and after the meal. Presented as gongfu tea, the tea has a thickly bittersweet taste, colloquially known as gam gam (甘甘; gān gān).

A condiment that is popular in Fujian and Taiwanese cuisine and commonly associated with cuisine of certain Teochew groups is shacha sauce (沙茶酱; 沙茶醬; shāchá jiàng). It is made from soybean oil, garlic, shallots, chilies, brill fish and dried shrimp. The paste has a savoury and slightly spicy taste. As an ingredient, it has multiple uses: as a base for soups, as a rub for barbecued meats, as a seasoning for stir-fried dishes, or as a component for dipping sauces.

In addition to soy sauce (widely used in all Chinese cuisines), Teochew people also use fish sauce in their cooking.

Teochew chefs often use a special stock called siang teng (上汤; 上湯; shàngtāng), literally translates from the Teochew dialect as "superior broth". This stock remains on the stove and is continuously replenished (a perpetual stew). Portrayed in popular media, some Hong Kong chefs allegedly use the same superior broth that is preserved for decades. This stock can as well be seen on Chaozhou TV's cooking programmes.

There is a notable feast in Teochew cuisine called jiat dot (食桌; shízhuō; 'food table'). A myriad of dishes are often served, which include shark fin soup, bird's nest soup, lobster, steamed fish, roasted suckling pig and braised goose. However, due to legal and environmental considerations, jiat dot no longer serves shark fin soup and bird's nest soup.

When guests go to jiat dot, they must be neatly dressed, with clean hats and footwear. In earlier times, men were expected to wear long gowns and felt hats, while women would comb their hair carefully, apply light makeup, and wear ruyi hairpins (如意發簪). If one’s clothing is untidy, speech improper, posture careless, or behavior lacking decorum, others will feel that you do not understand proper etiquette and that you fail to show respect and humility. At the table, one must observe good manners—be refined, composed, and handle tableware gently. As stated in the Liji · Quli: "Do not let liquids spill; do not make noises while eating; do not gnaw bones loudly" (毋流歠，毋咤食，毋齧骨). This means that when drinking soup, one must avoid letting it dribble from the mouth; when eating dishes, the tongue should not make smacking or clicking sounds; and when eating meat, one should not gnaw bones so forcefully that it produces noise.

Teochew chefs take pride in their skills of vegetable carving, and carved vegetables are used as garnishes on cold dishes and on the banquet table.

Teochew cuisine is also known for a late night meal known as meh siao (夜宵; yèxiāo) or daa laang (打冷; dǎléng) among the Cantonese. Teochew people enjoy eating out close to midnight in restaurants or at roadside food stalls. Some dai pai dong-like eateries stay open till dawn.

Unlike the typical menu selections of many other Chinese cuisines, Teochew restaurant menus often have a dessert section.

Many people of Teochew origin, also known as Teochiu or Teochew people, have settled in Hong Kong and places in Southeast Asia like Malaysia, Singapore, Cambodia and Thailand. Influences they bring can be noted in Singaporean cuisine and that of other settlements. A large number of Teochew people have also settled in Taiwan, evident in Taiwanese cuisine. Other notable Teochew diaspora communities are in Vietnam, Cambodia and France. A popular noodle soup in both Vietnam and Cambodia, known as hu tieu, originated from the Teochew . There is also a large diaspora of Teochew people (most were from Southeast Asia) in the United States - particularly in California. There is a Teochew Chinese Association in Paris called L'Amicale des Teochews en France.

Notable dishes

Gallery

"Flavor potted" goose (滷水鵝)

Taro paste (芋泥)

Crystal balls (水晶包)

Steamed fish (炊魚)

Oyster omelette (蚝烙)

Fried chive dumplings (韭菜粿)

Patriotic Soup (Protect the Country Dish (護國菜))

A dish of fried tofu (炸豆腐) with dipping sauce.

Teochew rice noodle soup (潮州粿條).

Sautéed prawns with olive vegetables (欖菜焗蝦) .

Teochew hotpot (潮州火鍋)

Sichuan pepper chicken (川椒雞)

Bak Kut Teh (肉骨茶)

See also

List of Chinese dishes

Teochew porridge

Teochew people

Chaoshan culture

References

^ a b Chang, Kwang-chih (1977), Food in Chinese culture: anthropological and historical perspectives, Yale University Press

^ 潮州市侨联. "潮州习俗之回娘家". 潮州市侨联.

^ a b c "潮汕做桌与食桌的风俗 - 普宁市政府门户网站". www.puning.gov.cn. Retrieved March 12, 2026.

^ "你吃過這麼「旁派」的「桌」嗎？" (PDF). 香港潮州商會會訊. 104: 35.

^ "潮汕人"做桌""食桌"大有学问，这几种"食桌"你肯定吃不全！". www.sohu.com. Retrieved March 12, 2026.

^ "禮記章句/卷一·曲禮上·第三十章 - 維基文庫，自由的圖書館". zh.wikisource.org (in Traditional Chinese). Retrieved March 12, 2026.

^ The globalization of Chinese food. Wu, David Y. H., Cheung, Sidney C. H. Honolulu: University of Hawaiʻi Press. 2002. ISBN 9780824825829. OCLC 48176894.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: others (link)

^ "Teochew noodles". AsiaLIFE Vietnam.

^ Yin-Fei Lo, Eileen (2009). Mastering the Art of Chinese Cooking. San Francisco: Chronicle Books LLC. p. 327. ISBN 9780811859332.

^ Mok, Annie (April 5, 2015). "Annielicious Food: TeowChew Png Kueh / TeowChew Glutinous Rice Dumpling (潮州饭粿 / 潮州红桃粄 )". Annielicious Food. Retrieved February 15, 2018.

^ Yin-Fei Lo, Eileen (2009). Mastering the Art of Chinese Cooking. San Francisco: Chronicle Books LLC. pp. 219–221. ISBN 9780811859332.

External links

Yeo's Teochew Popiah Recipe

Jenius' Teochew peach shaped kueh Recipe Archived November 9, 2011, at the Wayback Machine

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

Bak kut teh

Bánh pía

Beef ball

Chai tow kway

Chwee kueh

Crab jujube

Fish ball

Fun guo

Jiaozi

Kway chap

Mee pok

Ngo hiang

Oyster omelette

Patriotic soup

Pig's organ soup

Popiah

Red peach cake

Sichuan pepper chicken

Shacha sauce

Soon kueh

Tao kuih

Teochew porridge

Tieguanyin

Yusheng

# Teochew cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Teochew cuisine, also known as Chiuchow cuisine, Chaozhou cuisine or Teo-swa cuisine, originated from the Chaoshan region in the eastern part of China's Guangdong Province, which includes the cities of Chaozhou, Shantou and Jieyang. Teochew cuisine bears more similarities to that of Fujian cuisine, particularly Southern Min cuisine, due to the similarity of Teochew's and Fujian's culture, language, and their geographic proximity to each other. However, Teochew cuisine is also influenced by Cantonese cuisine in its style and technique.

Background

Teochew cuisine is well known for its seafood and vegetarian dishes. Its use of flavouring is much less heavy-handed than most other Chinese cuisines and depends much on the freshness and quality of the ingredients for taste and flavour. As a delicate cuisine, oil is not often used in large quantities and there is a relatively heavy emphasis on poaching, steaming and braising, as well as the common Chinese method of stir-frying. Teochew cuisine is also known for serving congee (糜; mí; or mue), in addition to steamed rice or noodles with meals. The Teochew mue is rather different from the Cantonese counterpart, being very watery with the rice sitting loosely at the bottom of the bowl, while the Cantonese dish is more a thin gruel.

Authentic Teochew restaurants serve very strong oolong tea called Tieguanyin in very tiny cups before and after the meal. Presented as gongfu tea, the tea has a thickly bittersweet taste, colloquially known as gam gam (甘甘; gān gān).

A condiment that is popular in Fujian and Taiwanese cuisine and commonly associated with cuisine of certain Teochew groups is shacha sauce (沙茶酱; 沙茶醬; shāchá jiàng). It is made from soybean oil, garlic, shallots, chilies, brill fish and dried shrimp. The paste has a savoury and slightly spicy taste. As an ingredient, it has multiple uses: as a base for soups, as a rub for barbecued meats, as a seasoning for stir-fried dishes, or as a component for dipping sauces.

In addition to soy sauce (widely used in all Chinese cuisines), Teochew people also use fish sauce in their cooking.

Teochew chefs often use a special stock called siang teng (上汤; 上湯; shàngtāng), literally translates from the Teochew dialect as "superior broth". This stock remains on the stove and is continuously replenished (a perpetual stew). Portrayed in popular media, some Hong Kong chefs allegedly use the same superior broth that is preserved for decades. This stock can as well be seen on Chaozhou TV's cooking programmes.

There is a notable feast in Teochew cuisine called jiat dot (食桌; shízhuō; 'food table'). A myriad of dishes are often served, which include shark fin soup, bird's nest soup, lobster, steamed fish, roasted suckling pig and braised goose. However, due to legal and environmental considerations, jiat dot no longer serves shark fin soup and bird's nest soup.

When guests go to jiat dot, they must be neatly dressed, with clean hats and footwear. In earlier times, men were expected to wear long gowns and felt hats, while women would comb their hair carefully, apply light makeup, and wear ruyi hairpins (如意發簪). If one’s clothing is untidy, speech improper, posture careless, or behavior lacking decorum, others will feel that you do not understand proper etiquette and that you fail to show respect and humility. At the table, one must observe good manners—be refined, composed, and handle tableware gently. As stated in the Liji · Quli: "Do not let liquids spill; do not make noises while eating; do not gnaw bones loudly" (毋流歠，毋咤食，毋齧骨). This means that when drinking soup, one must avoid letting it dribble from the mouth; when eating dishes, the tongue should not make smacking or clicking sounds; and when eating meat, one should not gnaw bones so forcefully that it produces noise.

Teochew chefs take pride in their skills of vegetable carving, and carved vegetables are used as garnishes on cold dishes and on the banquet table.

Teochew cuisine is also known for a late night meal known as meh siao (夜宵; yèxiāo) or daa laang (打冷; dǎléng) among the Cantonese. Teochew people enjoy eating out close to midnight in restaurants or at roadside food stalls. Some dai pai dong-like eateries stay open till dawn.

Unlike the typical menu selections of many other Chinese cuisines, Teochew restaurant menus often have a dessert section.

Many people of Teochew origin, also known as Teochiu or Teochew people, have settled in Hong Kong and places in Southeast Asia like Malaysia, Singapore, Cambodia and Thailand. Influences they bring can be noted in Singaporean cuisine and that of other settlements. A large number of Teochew people have also settled in Taiwan, evident in Taiwanese cuisine. Other notable Teochew diaspora communities are in Vietnam, Cambodia and France. A popular noodle soup in both Vietnam and Cambodia, known as hu tieu, originated from the Teochew . There is also a large diaspora of Teochew people (most were from Southeast Asia) in the United States - particularly in California. There is a Teochew Chinese Association in Paris called L'Amicale des Teochews en France.

Notable dishes

Gallery

"Flavor potted" goose (滷水鵝)

Taro paste (芋泥)

Crystal balls (水晶包)

Steamed fish (炊魚)

Oyster omelette (蚝烙)

Fried chive dumplings (韭菜粿)

Patriotic Soup (Protect the Country Dish (護國菜))

A dish of fried tofu (炸豆腐) with dipping sauce.

Teochew rice noodle soup (潮州粿條).

Sautéed prawns with olive vegetables (欖菜焗蝦) .

Teochew hotpot (潮州火鍋)

Sichuan pepper chicken (川椒雞)

Bak Kut Teh (肉骨茶)

See also

List of Chinese dishes

Teochew porridge

Teochew people

Chaoshan culture

References

^ a b Chang, Kwang-chih (1977), Food in Chinese culture: anthropological and historical perspectives, Yale University Press

^ 潮州市侨联. "潮州习俗之回娘家". 潮州市侨联.

^ a b c "潮汕做桌与食桌的风俗 - 普宁市政府门户网站". www.puning.gov.cn. Retrieved March 12, 2026.

^ "你吃過這麼「旁派」的「桌」嗎？" (PDF). 香港潮州商會會訊. 104: 35.

^ "潮汕人"做桌""食桌"大有学问，这几种"食桌"你肯定吃不全！". www.sohu.com. Retrieved March 12, 2026.

^ "禮記章句/卷一·曲禮上·第三十章 - 維基文庫，自由的圖書館". zh.wikisource.org (in Traditional Chinese). Retrieved March 12, 2026.

^ The globalization of Chinese food. Wu, David Y. H., Cheung, Sidney C. H. Honolulu: University of Hawaiʻi Press. 2002. ISBN 9780824825829. OCLC 48176894.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: others (link)

^ "Teochew noodles". AsiaLIFE Vietnam.

^ Yin-Fei Lo, Eileen (2009). Mastering the Art of Chinese Cooking. San Francisco: Chronicle Books LLC. p. 327. ISBN 9780811859332.

^ Mok, Annie (April 5, 2015). "Annielicious Food: TeowChew Png Kueh / TeowChew Glutinous Rice Dumpling (潮州饭粿 / 潮州红桃粄 )". Annielicious Food. Retrieved February 15, 2018.

^ Yin-Fei Lo, Eileen (2009). Mastering the Art of Chinese Cooking. San Francisco: Chronicle Books LLC. pp. 219–221. ISBN 9780811859332.

External links

Yeo's Teochew Popiah Recipe

Jenius' Teochew peach shaped kueh Recipe Archived November 9, 2011, at the Wayback Machine

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

Bak kut teh

Bánh pía

Beef ball

Chai tow kway

Chwee kueh

Crab jujube

Fish ball

Fun guo

Jiaozi

Kway chap

Mee pok

Ngo hiang

Oyster omelette

Patriotic soup

Pig's organ soup

Popiah

Red peach cake

Sichuan pepper chicken

Shacha sauce

Soon kueh

Tao kuih

Teochew porridge

Tieguanyin

Yusheng

# Guizhou cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Guizhou cuisine, or Qian cuisine, consists of cooking traditions and dishes from Guizhou Province in southwestern China. Guizhou cuisine shares many features with Sichuan cuisine and Hunan cuisine, especially in bringing the sensation of spiciness and pungency. What makes Guizhou cuisine unique is the emphasis of a mixed sour-and-spicy taste, as compared to the numbing-and-hot sensation (麻辣; má là) featured in Sichuan cuisine and the dry-hot taste (干辣; 乾辣; gān là) featured in Hunan cuisine. There is an ancient local saying, "Without eating a sour dish for three days, people will stagger with weak legs". The saying reflects how Guizhou people love local dishes with a sour taste. The combination of sour and spicy flavours is also found in Shaanxi cuisine. Guizhou cuisine differs from Shaanxi cuisine in that it lacks the emphasis on the salty taste, which is a common trait found in most northern Chinese cuisines. In addition, the unique sourness featured in Guizhou cuisine comes from the local tradition of fermenting vegetables or grains, and not from using vinegar products.

Guizhou cuisine comprises many local varieties and dishes from ethnic minorities, such as the Miao people. Some famous local cuisines are represented by large cities like Guiyang, Zunyi, and Liupanshui.

Guizhou cuisine has matured since the beginning of the Ming dynasty.

Features

Guizhou is famous for producing high-quality Chinese liquor, baijiu. One of the most famous and expensive baijiu in China, Maotai, is from Guizhou. Guizhou cuisine also features dishes specially cooked to match the flavour of locally produced liquor, such as preserved vegetables and steamed cured meat.

Guizhou cuisine features various pickled vegetable, or yancai (腌菜; 醃菜; yān cài). The pickled vegetables bring the sour sensation. Fresh vegetables are dried without exposure to sunlight after being cleaned. Afterwards, they are salted and sealed in containers for four or five days to allow proper fermentation. Pickled cabbage and radish are served as side dishes, commonly with wheat and rice noodle dishes.

The sour soup broth (酸汤; 酸湯; suān tāng), representative of Guizhou cuisine with unique sourness, is a cooking heritage from the Miao people. It is the secret to create the famous Guizhou dish 'fish in sour soup'. The broth is normally made from the fermentation of rice, rice wine, wild tomatoes, red pepper, garlic and ginger.

Spicy dipping sauce (蘸水; zhàn shuǐ) is crucial in daily dining of Guizhou people. It is made by mixing chili pepper, garlic, ginger, green scallion, sesame oil or soy sauce, according to personal preference. One unique ingredient used in Guizhou dipping sauce is Houttuynia (折耳根/鱼腥草; 折耳根/魚腥草; zhéěrgēn/yúxīng cǎo), which is loved by local people but not commonly accepted by other Chinese with its distinct taste.

Various types of spiciness in Guizhou cuisine come from the art of using chili peppers in different ways by locals. Hu-la (糊辣; hú là) is created by heat-drying crushed chili pepper. Ciba-la (糍粑辣; cíbā là) refers to both the uncooked mashed chili pepper paste and the chili sauce by simmering the paste in oil. Zao-la (糟辣; zāo là) is made by preserving minced chili pepper with ginger and garlic. Laoguo-la (烙锅辣; 烙鍋辣; lào guō là) is spice-flavored chili flakes. The renowned chili sauce brand Lao Gan Ma originated in Guizhou.

Notable dishes

(also written as “恋爱豆腐果”)

References

^ Hunt, Katie (8 April 2017). "China's spicy Guizhou province: How to eat like a local". CNN Travel. Retrieved 21 June 2025.

^ "Guizhou cuisine". ChinaDaily.

^ "Guizhou's chili chicken and delectable hot sauce". Madame Huang's Kitchen. 7 July 2014.

^ "Chili is a dish in Guizhou". chiyou.

History

Politics

Economy

Cities

Yunnan–Guizhou Plateau

Guizhou University

Guizhou Normal University

Zunyi Medical University

Guizhou Medical University

Mak language

Cuisine

Village Basketball Association [zh]

Village Super League

Huangguoshu Waterfall

Fanjingshan

Zhijin Cave

Five-hundred-meter Aperture Spherical Telescope

Category

Commons

Siwawa (Guiyang spring roll)

Changwang noodles

Cui shao

love tofu

Yang yu ba

Crispy Duck

guai-lu fried rice

Sour soup fish

Jin qian rou

Babao wawayu

Laziji

Kung Pao chicken

Category

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

# Hainan cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Hainan cuisine, or Hainanese cuisine, is derived from the cooking styles of the peoples of Hainan Province in China. The food is lighter, less oily, and more mildly seasoned than that of the Chinese mainland. Seafood predominates the menu, as prawn, crab, and freshwater and ocean fish are widely available.

Congee, mantou and baozi are eaten for breakfast, with a noodle dish also being widely eaten. This consists of fine, vermicelli-type noodles with various toppings and gravy. Along with lunch and dinner, late night outdoor barbecue dishes are also served.

Four Most Famous Dishes in Hainan Cuisine

Other notable dishes

See also

Chinese cuisine

List of Chinese dishes

References

^ a b c d e f Gwinnell, Philip; Han, Bin (December 2010). Hainan, China's Emerging Jewel - The Definitive Guide. Nanfang Publishing House (南方出版社）. ISBN 978-7-5501-0016-9.

^ "Hainan Cuisine - China culture". Kaleidoscope.cultural-china.com. Archived from the original on February 22, 2012. Retrieved 2012-04-24.

^ "Hainan Four Best Known Dishes-Wenchang Chicken—Hainan Cuisine -Sunny Hainan Holiday |Hainan Tourism official website". Hainantour.com. 2009-04-13. Archived from the original on 2019-12-16. Retrieved 2010-07-30.

^ "Wenchang Chicken - China culture". Kaleidoscope.cultural-china.com. 2010-02-20. Archived from the original on 2010-07-17. Retrieved 2010-07-30.

^ "Coconut Qing Bu Liang from Hainan is a Must-Try Summer Dessert". The World of Chinese. Retrieved 2023-02-15.

External links

Images of Hainan dishes

Images of Wenchang chicken, and other signature Hainan dishes

History

Historical and cultural sites

Politics

Economy Free Trade Port

Free Trade Port

Islands of Hainan

Dazhou Island

Haidian Island

Haitang Bay

Sanya Bay

Nandu River

Wanquan River

Songtao Reservoir

Wuzhizhou Island

Wuzhi Mountain

Yangpu Peninsula

Yongxing Island/Woody Island

Hainan yellow lantern chili

Hainan gymnure

Hainan partridge

Hainan peacock-pheasant

Hainan black crested gibbon

Hainan hare

Hainan TV

Haikou TV

Nanguo Metropolis Daily

Hainan Daily

Hainan Eastern Ring HSR

Hainan Western Ring HSR

Hainan Airlines

Haikou Meilan International Airport

Qionghai Bo'ao Airport

Sanya Phoenix International Airport

Basuo Port

Haikou New Port

Haikou Xiuying Port

Macun Port

Port of Yangpu

Haikou College of Economics

Hainan Medical University

Hainan Normal University

Hainan University

Qiongzhou University/Hainan Tropical Ocean University

Sanya University

Hainanese

Zhuang

Lingao people [zh]

Mainland People [zh]

Crown of Beauty Theatre

Haikou Century Bridge

Haikou Great Hall of the People

Hainan Centre for the Performing Arts

Hainan International Convention And Exhibition Center

Hainan Library

Hainan chicken rice

Wenchang chicken

Statue of Guanyin

Hainan Museum

Leiqiong/Haikou Volcanic Cluster Global Geopark

Luobi Cave

Mission Hills Star Trophy

Nanwan Monkey Island

Nanshan Temple

Phoenix Island

Temple of the Five Lords

Tianya Haijiao

Yangpu Ancient Salt Field

Yalong Bay

Category

Commons

This article related to Chinese cuisine is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

# Hakka cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Hakka cuisine is the cooking style of the Hakka people. It is found primarily in the Chinese provinces of Guangdong, Fujian, and Jiangxi, as well as parts of Taiwan and within countries with significant overseas Hakka communities. There are many restaurants in mainland China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, and Thailand, as well as in the United States and Canada, that serve Hakka food. Hakka cuisine was listed in 2014 on the first Hong Kong Inventory of Intangible Cultural Heritage.

Background

The Hakka people have a marked cuisine and style of Chinese cooking which is little known outside the Hakka home. It concentrates on the texture of food – the hallmark of Hakka cuisine. Whereas preserved meats feature in Hakka delicacy, stewed, braised, roast meats – 'texturized' contributions to the Hakka palate – have a central place in their repertoire. Preserved vegetables (梅菜) are commonly used for steamed and braised dishes such as steamed minced pork with preserved vegetables and braised pork with salted vegetables. In fact, the raw materials for Hakka food are no different from raw materials for any other type of regional Chinese cuisine where what is cooked depends on what is available in the market. Hakka cuisine may be described as outwardly simple but tasty. The skill in Hakka cuisine lies in the ability to cook meat thoroughly without hardening it, and to naturally bring out the proteinous flavor (umami taste) of meat.

The Hakka who settled in the harbor and port areas of Hong Kong placed great emphasis on seafood cuisine. Hakka cuisine in Hong Kong is less dominated by expensive meats; instead, emphasis is placed on an abundance of vegetables. Pragmatic and simple, Hakka cuisine is garnished lightly with sparse or little flavoring. Modern Hakka cooking in Hong Kong favors offal, an example being deep-fried intestines (炸大腸; zhá dà cháng). Others include tofu with preservatives, along with their signature dish, salt-baked chicken (鹽焗雞; yán jú jī). Another specialty is the poon choi (盆菜; pén cài). While it may be difficult to prove these were the actual diets of the old Hakka community, it is at present a commonly accepted view. The above dishes and their variations are in fact found and consumed throughout China, including Guangdong Province, and are not particularly unique or confined to the Hakka population.

Besides meat as source of protein, there is a unique vegan dish called lei cha (擂茶; léi chá). It comprises combinations of vegetables and beans. Although not specifically unique for all Hakka people but are definitely famous among the Hakka-Hopo families. This vegetable-based rice tea dish is gaining momentum in some multicultural countries like Malaysia. Cooking of this dish requires the help from other family members to complete all eight combinations. It helps foster the relationship between family members in return.

Steamed buns (包子) are a popular snack among the Hakka people, especially pork belly bao (扣肉包) that is stuffed with kiu nyuk. This bun is usually made with flour, water, sugar, and yeast, resulting in a soft, fluffy texture when steamed. Other varieties include a dumpling-like bun called tea fruit (茶果), made from glutinous rice. The sweet version is filled with sweetened black-eyed pea paste or peanuts, while the salty version contains preserved vegetables or radishes.

Notable dishes

Hakka food also includes other traditional Taiwanese dishes, just as other Taiwanese ethnic groups do. Some of the more notable dishes in Hakka cuisine are listed as follow:

Hakka cuisine in South Asia

In India, Pakistan and other South Asian countries, there is something locally known as "Hakka cuisine." This variation of Chinese-style cuisine is, in reality, mostly Indian Chinese cuisine and Pakistani Chinese cuisine. It is called "Hakka cuisine" because, in India and areas of Pakistan, many owners of restaurants who serve this cuisine are of Hakka origin. Typical dishes include 'chilli chicken' and 'Dongbei (northeastern) chow mein/hakka noodles' (an Indian version of real Northeastern Chinese cuisine), and these restaurants also serve traditional South Asian dishes such as pakora. Being very popular in these areas, this style of cuisine is often mistakenly credited as being representative of Hakka cuisine in general, whereas the authentic style of Hakka cuisine is rarely known in these regions.

Outside of South Asia, the premier place to enjoy Indian-Pakistani-Chinese cuisine is in Toronto, Canada, due to most of it being halal. In Toronto, "Hakka Chinese food" almost universally refers to Indian-Chinese cuisine, not Hakka cuisine in general.

Hakka cuisine in Thailand

In Thailand, Bangkok's Chinatown is Yaowarat and including neighboring areas such as Sampheng, Charoen Chai, Charoen Krung, Suan Mali, Phlapphla Chai or 22 July Circle. In the past, many Hakka restaurants are located in the Suan Mali near Bangkok Metropolitan Administration General Hospital. But now they had moved into many places, such as Talad Phlu, which is also one of the Chinatown as well.

See also

Taiwanese cuisine

References

^ Lau Anusasananan, Linda (2012). The Hakka Cookbook: Chinese Soul Food from Around the World. Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press. ISBN 978-0520273283.

^ Item 5.27, "First Hong Kong Inventory of Intangible Cultural Heritage" (PDF). Intangible Cultural Heritage Advisory Committee, Leisure and Cultural Services Department, Hong Kong. 17 June 2014. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 October 2015. Retrieved 24 November 2014.

^ Sterling, Richard; Chong, Elizabeth; Qin, Charles Lushan (2001). World Food Hong Kong. Hong Kong: Lonely Planet Publishing. ISBN 1-86450-288-6.

^ Mintz, Corey (25 September 2017). "Lunch Lesson: Getting schooled on Hakka Indian cuisine at Yueh Tung". Toronto Life. Retrieved 1 April 2021.

^ Italia, Rakshande (3 August 2007). "Hakka food combines the best of South Asian and Indian cooking". Toronto.com. Retrieved 1 April 2021.

^ แม่ช้อยนางรำ (2013-06-14). ""เอี้ยวฮิน" ร้านอาหารแคะ เจ้าสุดท้าย?". Manager Daily (in Thai). Archived from the original on 2018-03-23. Retrieved 2018-03-22.

External links

The Hakka Cookbook (author website)

Jiaozi

Lei cha

Yong tau foo

Choi pan

Ham choi

Hee pan

Salt-baked chicken

Kiu nyuk

Poon choi

Hong Kong cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Outline

Index of articles

Prehistoric

Imperial China Bao'an County and Xin'an County

Bao'an County and Xin'an County

British colony

1800s–1930s WWI

Battle of Hong Kong

Japanese occupation

Liberation of Hong Kong

Handover of Hong Kong

Administrative divisions

Air pollution

Beaches

Buildings and structures

Channels

Cities and towns

Country parks and conservation

Ecology

Land reclamation

Harbours

Islands and peninsulas

Marine parks

Mountains and peaks

Public parks and gardens

Reservoirs

Rivers

Villages

National anthem

Basic Law

Chief Executive

Districts

Elections

Emblem

Foreign relations

Government

Independence

Judiciary

Legal system

Legislative Council

LGBT rights

Military

One country, two systems

Political parties

Protests

Sino-British Joint Declaration

Special administrative regions of China

Education

Fire services

Food and Health Bureau

Healthcare

Police

Companies

Dollar (currency)

Employment

Hawkers

Postal codes

Stock Exchange

Communications Telephone numbers

Telephone numbers

The Hongs

Tourism

Airlines

Airport

Cycling

Ferries

List of roads

Prostitution

Sex trafficking

Architecture

Cinema

Comics

Cheung Chau Bun Festival

Cuisine

Gambling

Graffiti

Heritage conservation

Hong Kong orchid

Honours system

Hong Kong nationalism

Languages

Lion Rock Spirit

Literature

McDull

Museums

Ngai jong

People Demographics Women Youth

Demographics

Public holidays

Religion

Shopping

Television

Visual art

Anglosphere

CJKV Sinosphere

Sinosphere

United States

Israel

# Henan cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Henan cuisine or Yu cuisine refers to the cooking styles of the Henan province in China. Being landlocked on all sides, the influence of localized culinary styles is plentiful in Henan cuisine, such as blending styles from Jiangsu and Beijing. Henan cuisine is known for its taste variety, including a blend of sour, sweet, bitter, spicy and salty. There are a wide variety of Henan dishes, including carp with fried noodles in sweet and sour sauce, grilled head and tail of black carp, Bianjing roasted duck, stewed noodles with mutton, and spicy soup. Henan cuisine is known for inducing a very moderate and balanced mix of flavours in its dishes, and has one of China's oldest and most traditional cooking styles.

History

Henan cuisine dates back to the late Xia dynasty in the 21st to the 17th century BC. Within this period, the entirety of Henan cuisine underwent rapid and robust changes to accommodate the different emerging culinary cultures from the surrounding regions. By the end of the Xia dynasty, there was an entire banquet system based on Henan dishes. By the time the Shang dynasty began in the 17th century BC, Henan cuisine was redesigned with the new seasoning including all different flavours to bring a more harmonious element to it. This formed the base for most of the later Chinese cuisines.

Afterward in the period of the Northern Song dynasty (around 960 – 1127 AD), Henan cuisine reached its zenith. With the establishment of the capital city in Kaifeng, Henan, there was an uprise in the invention of a variety of new snacks. With rapid growth and development in the frying skills of the people, there was a peaking of a rise in fried food as well. Around this time, Henan cuisine was also beginning to be divided into five kinds of dishes based on social status and religious backgrounds. The dishes for the imperial courthouses were different from the ones found in high-class localities, markets, in the temples and those found in common folk households.

With the fall of the Southern Song dynasty around 1170 – 1180 AD, there was a decline in the quality and nature of the Henan cuisine. It was evident that the imperial stronghold was significant for the Henan cuisine to survive and without the strength of the dynasty, the hierarchical structure for Henan cuisine started to break down. Later, based on the original Henan Culinary style in the imperial courts, high class families, markets, temples and households, a mixed blend of contemporary Henan cuisine was developed. Much like the nature of its flavours, harmony in terms of social status was also shown to be a diversifying feature of the Henan cuisine. Over time, contact with the nearby regions on all sides, especially with Beijing and Jiangsu, had styles pour over to the Henan style.

Cultural relevance

Chinese cuisine is intricately linked with the culture of the place it is from. Henan also follows this connection, as it embraces the notion of mean and harmony in most of its cuisines. Given that Henan is an entirely landlocked province, the influence from the neighbouring regions are quite evident in the culture of the province, as much as it is evident in the culinary styles and dishes. One prevalent feature is the use of animal fat. Previously, animal fat was frequently used in Henan cuisine to fry foods, but given partly the influence of neighbouring regions and partly the influence of the growing health concerns, it is slowly seeing a decline.

Henan is one of the oldest provinces of China, which has evolved merging the important food cultures of surrounding regions. The location of the province is in the middle of the four ancient capitals of the country, namely: Anyang, Zhengzhou, Luoyang, and Kaifeng. It is one of the largest provinces in terms of area and is also considered as the origin of the Chinese style of cooking. The cuisine is known by various names due to being used under different dynasties such as Yu cuisine and Zhongyuan. The cuisine shows the collaboration of the cooking style and culinary adherence and adaptation from the surrounding provinces. However, there has been disagreement among the Han Chinese relating to the original style of the cuisine because the province always been a political and economic center in the past, making it almost impossible to trace the historical development of the cuisine. The name Yu cuisine refers to the style which they employ to cook specific dishes of the cuisine. The method of cooking is based on a variety of techniques and is taken from the province to which the dish is related.

Characteristics

Apart from sharing similarities with the Jiangsu cuisine in terms of the extremeness of flavour, Henan cuisine has its own features and characteristics. Onions are a staple of Henan cuisine. The principal meat used in Henan cuisine is pork, but it is not often served in soups. For soups, the primary choice is restricted to mutton and lamb. Like other parts of northern China, the staple crop in most of Henan is wheat, and wheat-based products like shaobing are commonly consumed.

The food culture of a geographical location is frequently found to be influenced by the social, political, and economic factors, and the development involved in all three sectors together combines to form grounds on which the cuisines are built. Another essential factor that contributes to the cuisine and its formation is due to the food crop and raw material found in the region. The staple food of a location is found to be the base on which the cuisine is modified and structured.

The most significant feature of this cuisine arises because of the overlapping method of cooking, which is adapted from Beijing and Jiangsu cuisine and that gives it a very distinct texture and is dependent on the seasonal food. However, the style adopted by Henan cuisine resembles more to that of Jiangsu and is mostly lighter in taste. The most common food material used in terms of meat is pork and is used along with animal fat in most of the dishes. The combined form of the cuisine is achieved with the Yu style of cooking, where many methods such as boiling, stewing, steaming, frying as well deep frying, and along with it, most of the dishes were served with thick sauces made from scratch.

Dishes

Yellow River Carp with Baked Noodles（黄河鲤鱼焙面）: This dish is made by combining two famous dishes: "Sweet and Sour Carp" and "Baked Noodles" that are as thin as hair.

Pan-fried head and tail of grass carp（煎扒青鱼头尾）: The finished dish is jujube red in color, with a rich aroma and tender texture. When eating, a piece of the fish head can be put in the mouth to suck out the brain. The fish meat will also automatically separate from the skull.

Hulatang (Spicy Soup 胡辣汤): Typically made with beef (or mutton), gluten, tofu skin, pepper, chili, and other ingredients, the soup is thick and has a savory, spicy, and numbing flavor. It is often eaten for breakfast.

Zhengzhou braised noodles（羊肉烩面）: Zhengzhou braised noodles come in many varieties, including mutton braised noodles, three-delicacy braised noodles, and five-spice braised noodles.

Braised pork belly（扒广肚）: It has the effects of tonifying the kidneys and lungs, consolidating essence and stopping leukorrhea, replenishing qi and essence, nourishing tendons and veins, stopping bleeding and dispersing blood stasis.

One of the most significant dishes is known as Wuxiang shaobing, which is a five-spiced bread and is served with pork meat cooked in several ways. Some of the traditional dishes include soups such as Hu La Soup and Luoyang Water Banquet. There is a mix in the use of meat in the case of the traditional Kaifeng Tai Si Bao, which is made by stuffing one bird into a bigger one and then glazing with animal fats and steaming along with vegetables. It is served as a main course along with loaves of bread. The dish is used as a side dish for the main course and is often found in all the traditional restaurants of Henan.[contradictory] Another recipe which is served in Henan province is Luoyang Water Banquet, which is a soup that involves an intricate cooking technique in which the egg slices are carved in the shape of the peony flower, which is a local favorite in the capital city of Zhengzhou.

Carp on noodles is another main dish which has been adopted from the Kaifeng cuisine, and is served along with sweet and sour soup with the steamed carp covered and deep-fried with noodles. One of the dishes available in a select few restaurants is known as Jiao Hua Ji. It is prepared after the chicken is covered with mud and is then roasted. If the roast is not opened, the chicken tends to last for at least two days. Bianjing Roasted Duck and Grilled Head and tail of Black Carp are two dishes that show the prevalence of sweet and sour taste in cooked meat.

References

^ a b c d "Henan Food – Cuisine Of Henan In Central China". Travelchinaguide.com. 2020.[dead link]

^ a b G, Yanling (2012). "A Study of Changyuan Cuisine Culture and the Development of Local Tourism". Journal of Henan Institute of Science and Technology. 3: 3.

^ Liu, J; Luo, D; Chen, R; Xu, B; Liu, J (2016). "Effects of short-chain inulin on quality of Chinese steamed bread". Journal of Food Quality. 39 (4): 255–263. doi:10.1111/jfq.12201.

^ a b Zhang, C; Yue, Z; Zhou, Q; Ma, S; Zhang, Z.K (2019). "Using social media to explore regional cuisine preferences in China". Online Information Review. 43 (7): 1098–1114. doi:10.1108/OIR-08-2018-0244. S2CID 208619887.

^ Li, B (2016). "Comparison of Diet and Cooking based on Chinese and Western Culture". ISME 2016 - Information Science and Management Engineering IV. Science and Technology Publications. pp. 209–212. doi:10.5220/0006447302090212. ISBN 978-989-758-208-0.

^ 郑州市文化广电和旅游局, 郑州市文化广电和旅游局. "黄河鲤鱼焙面". 郑州市文化广电和旅游局.

^ 李, 睿 (January 2, 2018). "煎扒青鱼头尾". 煎扒青鱼头尾.

^ 周口市人民政府, 周口市人民政府 (November 29, 2024). "寻味胡辣汤". 经济日报.

^ 混知美食, 混知美食 (October 1, 2024). "河南最好吃的十大烩面". 搜狐.

^ "扒广肚". 排行榜.

^ Newman, M.J (2014). "Henan Cuisine: China's Culinary Cradle". Flavor and Fortune. 21 (4): 10–11, 32.

^ Phillips, C (2016). All Under Heaven: Recipes from the 35 Cuisines of China [A Cookbook]. Ten Speed Press.

^ Zhu, J; Xu, Y; Fang, Z; Shaw, S. L; Liu, X (2018). "Geographic prevalence and mix of regional cuisines in Chinese cities". ISPRS International Journal of Geo-Information. 7 (5): 183. Bibcode:2018IJGI....7..183Z. doi:10.3390/ijgi7050183. hdl:10397/78462.

History

Politics

Economy

Cities

North China Plain

Taihang Mountains

Loess Plateau

Dabie Mountains

Yellow River

Nanyang Basin

Huai River

Henan University

Henan Normal University

Henan University of Technology

Henan Agricultural University

Zhongyuan culture

Zhongyuan Mandarin

Henan opera

Xinyang brewed vegetables

Water Banquet

Hui mian

Hulatang

Gaocheng Astronomical Observatory

Mount Song

Shaolin Temple

Longmen Grottoes

Songyue Pagoda

Youguo Temple

White Horse Temple

Category

Commons

United States

Israel

# Hubei cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Hubei cuisine, also known as Chu cuisine or E cuisine, is derived from the native cooking styles of Hubei Province in China.

History

Hubei cuisine has a history of more than 2,000 years. The names of dishes and cuisine styles can be found in ancient literature such as Chuci of Qu Yuan.

Ingredients

As Hubei has plenty of lakes, rivers and marshlands, freshwater produce are used as major ingredients in the local cuisine. A key ingredient that is found within many Hubei-style dishes is the lotus root.

Hubei cuisine emphasizes the preparation of ingredients and the matching of colors. It specializes in steaming techniques. Its style is influenced by the cooking methods of the cuisines of neighboring provinces such as Sichuan and Hunan. As a result, Hubei cuisine also uses dried hot pepper, black pepper and other spices to enhance the flavor of dishes.

Hubei cuisine comprises four distinct styles:

Wuhan style specializes in soups as well as noodle dishes, such as hot dry noodles. Additionally, Wuhan is famous for its dry pots, which are similar to hot pot but without the soup base.

Huangzhou style, which is more oily and tastes more salty than the others.

Jingzhou style, which specializes in fish dishes and uses steaming as the primary method of cooking.

Miao people style, which tastes thick, with the sour and hot most outstanding. It is found in the southwest of Hubei province.

Signature dishes

Freshly made noodles drying in the sun in Futu, Huangshi Municipality

Chilli peppers sold in Wuhan

Gallery

Steamed fish cakes

Reganmian, the Hot Dried Noodles

Doupi, named after its outside layer made of green bean powder and eggs

Mianwo, deep-fried salty doughnut

Shaomei, a local variety of Shumai

Hot Dried Noodles and Danjiu (sweet rice wine with eggs)

Steamed Wuchang Bream

Lotus Root Soup with Pork Bones

Fried Hongshan Caitai with garlic and chili

Fried Lotus Rootlet

Fried Dousi with beef

Cibayu, ciba-style grass carp

Ganbian Ousi, fried lotus root sticks

Shao Mianwo, deep-fried doughnut of sweet potato cubes

Jiguanjiao, fried jiguan dumpling (shaped like a chicken comb)

Hutangfen, rice noodles in peppery carp soup

Miba, semisweet rice pancakes

Yuyuan (fish balls in broth made from the same fish)

Pianpiya (crispy duck, sliced)

Mianyang Sanzheng (The Three Steamed Dishes of Mianyang)

See also

List of Chinese dishes

References

^ a b "The Best Hubei Dishes In Los Angeles". Kcet.org. January 22, 2015. Retrieved October 17, 2018.

^ Thurman, Jim (December 10, 2014). "Welcome to Wuhan-Style Chinese Food. Here's Where to Get It in L.A." Laweekly.com. Retrieved October 17, 2018.

United States

Israel

Yale LUX

This article related to Chinese cuisine is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

# Jiangxi cuisine


Jiangxi cuisine (Chinese: 江西菜; pinyin: Jiāngxī cài), also known as Gan cuisine (赣菜; 贛菜; gàncài), is a style of Chinese cuisine derived from the native cooking styles of Jiangxi province in southern China. According to the East China Travel Guide published in 1983, Jiangxi cuisine has its unique taste which can be described in four Chinese idioms: 原汁原味(aim to bring out the own flavor of the cooking material)，油厚不腻(dishes contained a significant amount of oil but the taste are not greasy)，口味浓厚(dishes have really thick taste)，咸鲜兼辣(always come with spicy solid, salty flavor). Jiangxi cuisine is widely popular within the ordinary family because most of the notable dishes from Jiangxi cuisine are the extension of homely dishes with solid local flavor.

History

In ancient times, the Jiangxi Province of China was dominated by the ancestor of China’s Miao ethnic group. With the territorial disputes and subsequent chaos followed, residents from various regions migrated to the area that currently belongs to Jiangxi Province, searching for new homes. Besides the ordinary people, the migrants included many officials from the regions being defeated. These officials were accompanied by not only their family but also their chefs. Through migration, different cuisines and culinary customs were brought by new immigrants combined; eventually, different cuisines get improved and formed into new cuisine --- Jiangxi cuisine. And this is one of the reason Jiangxi cuisine are widely considered as the combination of other cuisines.

Major genres of Jiangxi cuisine

The taste of the dishes might have minor variations among different cities in Jiangxi Province in which Jiangxi cuisine has overall four major genres based on its region names: Nanchang, Ganzhou, Jiujiang, Gandong. And each Genre of Jiangxi Cuisine has its unique cooking style and famous dishes.

Nanchang Genres are mainly cooking food in the method of simmer and stir-fry. It has famous dishes of 'fried bacon with artemisia quinoa' (Chinese: '藜蒿炒腊肉'), "soup cooked with pottery jar' (Chinese:'瓦罐煨'), and spicy stir-fry Jiangxi rice-noodle ('辣江西炒米粉").

Ganzhou Genres are mainly cooked food in steamed meat with rice flour and low heat fry. It has famous dishes of 'Steamed pork with rice flour' (Chinese: '粉蒸肉 ') and 'Gannan fried fish' (Chinese: '赣南小炒鱼').Map of Ganzhou in Jiangxi Province

Jiujiang Genres are mainly with the cooking style of stew and heavily used fish. It has famous dishes of 'Poyang Lake fat fish head with red pepper' (Chinese: '鄱湖胖鱼头').Map of Jiujiang in Jiangxi Province

Gandong Genres have usually smoked the meat or dried the food in the sun before cooking. It has famous dishes of 'Pingxiang smoked meat' (Chinese: '萍乡烟熏肉'), and 'Jinggang stir-fry smoked bamboo' (Chinese: '井岗烟笋').

Characteristics

Spiciness: Like the cuisines of its neighbour provinces, Jiangxi cuisine favours overtly spicy tastes. In many regions in Jiangxi, chili peppers are directly used as vegetables instead of ingredients to enhance flavour, as in most other Chinese regional cuisines.

Absence of cold or raw dishes: Cold or raw dishes are rarely served in Jiangxi cuisine as compared to other Chinese cuisines.[citation needed]

Fish banquets: Jiangxi cuisine is famous for its freshwater fish banquets in contrast with Northeastern Chinese cuisine, which is known for its anadromous fish banquets. This is due to Jiangxi's geographical location, as there are many freshwater zones in the province.

Fermented black beans and beancurd: There is emphasis on the utilisation of douchi (fermented black beans) and tofu (beancurd) in comparison with other Chinese cuisines. Fried tofu is usually served during Chinese New Year celebrations.

Tea oil: Jiangxi cuisine uses tea oil as its primary cooking oil. As tea oil can cause stomach problems when consumed uncooked, any dishes that is cooked in tea oil is not served raw, which is the reason for the absence of cold or raw dishes in Jiangxi cuisine. However, Jiangxi cuisine is unique in that tea oil is used almost exclusively as the only cooking oil, with one minor exception being rapeseed oil. Other Chinese cuisines, on the other hand, also use tea oil but supplement it with a variety of other cooking oils.

Difference of Jiangxi Cuisine between Hunan and Sichuan Cuisine

Jiangxi cuisine, Hunan cuisine, and Sichuan cuisine all have spicy features in the majority of the notable dishes in each cuisine. However, each cuisine has a different cooking style and uses different materials used to increase the spiciness. Jiangxi cuisine focus on keeping the ‘original flavor’ of the food while using the spicy to enhance the level of the taste upon food original flavor. In addition, some dishes within the Jiangxi cuisine will use certain meat soups to enhance the taste of the plates. Jiangxi cuisine favors overtly spicy flavors; in many regions of the province, chili peppers are directly used as vegetable instead of as a seasoning, as in most other Chinese regional cuisines.

Notable dishes

Nanchang stir-fry rice-noodle(left)

南昌炒米粉（右）

Nánchāng chǎo mǐfěn (yòu)

Department of Commerce of Jiangxi Province held the selection/competition of "Top Ten Jiangxi Cuisine Dishes" and "Top Ten Jiangxi Cuisine Dishes Snacks" in 2021 aim to promote the development of Jiangxi cuisine while spread Jiangxi cuisine into national level. According to the result of the competition, the "Top Ten Jiangxi Cuisine dishes" are Ningdu Sanbei chicken, lotus blood duck, four-star full moon, Yugan fried meat with dried chili, Jinggang smoked bamboo, fish head with white sauce, boiled mandarin fish with rice noodle, steam turtle with rice noodle, fried bacon with artemisia quatrica, Taihe black chicken soup(Chinese(listed in the same order): 宁都三杯鸡、莲花血鸭、四星望月、余干辣椒炒肉、井冈烟笋、白浇雄鱼头、鳜鱼煮粉、甲鱼粉皮、藜蒿炒腊肉、滋补泰和乌鸡). The "Top Ten Jiangxi Cuisine snacks" are soup cooked with pottery jar, Nanchang stir-fry rice-noodle, Ruijin beef soup, Yiyang rice cake, Jiujiang radish cake, Jinggang fry rice cake, Ruizhou shaomai, alkali water cake, Li Chuan taro paste, Anyuan three fresh rice noodle((Chinese(listed in the same order):瓦罐煨汤、南昌米粉、瑞金牛肉汤、弋阳年糕、九江萝卜饼、井冈糍粑、瑞州烧麦、碱水粑、黎川芋糍、安远三鲜粉).

There is no up-to-date statistic record of the total dished in Jiangxi cuisine. Nevertheless, according to the record under the book called 赣菜 published in 1993, there are overall 209 dishes in Jiangxi cuisine at that time of date. The biggest charm of Jiangxi cuisine is to keep the original taste of the food while enhancing the best flavor through various cooking style in Jiangxi cuisine. The majority of the ingredients used in Jiangxi cuisine are all locally sourced. Most of people in Jiangxi Province are skillful in utilize the freshest local foods since they believed that fresh ingredients are the secret to a delicious dish. Therefore, the rich local local made products in Jiangxi Province have established the solid foundation for the development of Jiangxi cuisine.

Further reading

Jane Shaw. (1995). Jiangxi Cuisine. Women of China, 12, 52–52

Pu, Zheng, M., Lu, S., & Huang, J. (2019). Study on the Use of Cooking Oil in Chinese Dishes. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, 16(18), 3367. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph16183367

江西省人民政府 & 王飙 . (1993). 赣菜. 江西科技出版社.

Moser. (1985). The Gan People of Jiangxi Province. In The Chinese Mosaic: The Peoples and Provinces of China (1st ed., pp. 120–127). Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9780429309588-9

现代上海市旅游局. (1983). 华东旅游指南. 中国旅游出版社.

中央电视台《走遍中国:食在八方》节目组(Director & Producer).(2013). 食在八方之赣菜篇 [documentary].

服务贸易与商贸服务业处. (2021, February 2). 赣菜“十大名菜”“十大名小吃”发布会在南昌召开. 江西省商务厅 Department of Commerce of Jiangxi Province.

References

^ a b c d e f g h i 王, 飚; 江西省人民政府 (1997). 赣菜 (in Chinese). 南昌: 江西科技出版社. ISBN 7-5390-1182-3.

^ a b c d e 现代上海市旅游局宣传处 (1983). 华东旅游指南 (in Chinese). 中国旅游出版社. pp. 340–341.

^ a b Pu, Gangwei; Lu, Shijun; Zheng, Mo; Huang, Jiazhang; Cheng, Guangyan (2019-09-12). "Study on the Use of Cooking Oil in Chinese Dishes". International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health. 16 (18): 3367. doi:10.3390/ijerph16183367. ISSN 1660-4601. PMC 6765806. PMID 31547241.

^ a b c d e f g Jane Shaw. (1995). Jiangxi Cuisine. Women of China, 12, 52–52.

^ a b c d e f g "《走遍中国》 20130711 食在八方 第九集 赣菜". tv.cctv.com. Retrieved 2022-01-22.

^ a b c d "江西省商务厅 本厅 赣菜"十大名菜""十大名小吃"发布会在南昌召开". swt.jiangxi.gov.cn. Archived from the original on January 26, 2022. Retrieved 2022-01-26.

^ Moser, Leo J. (2019-06-18), "The Gan People of Jiangxi Province", The Chinese Mosaic: The Peoples and Provinces of China (1 ed.), Routledge, pp. 120–127, doi:10.4324/9780429309588-9, ISBN 978-0-429-30958-8, S2CID 199314337, retrieved 2022-02-12{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link)

History Chinese Soviet Republic Jiangxi Soviet

Chinese Soviet Republic

Jiangxi Soviet

Politics

Economy

Cities

Mufu Mountains

Jiuling Mountains

Luoxiao Mountains

Wuyi Mountains

Gan River

Poyang Lake

Yangtze River

Xiushui River

Jiangxi Normal University

East China University of Technology

Jiangxi Science and Technology Normal University

Jiangxi Agricultural University

Jinggangshan University

Jiujiang University

Nanchang University

Nanchang Hangkong University

Culture of Jiangxi

Gan Chinese (Nanchang dialect, Yichun dialect)

Ganju opera

Tea-picking opera

Nuo opera

Architecture

Jingdezhen porcelain

Jizhou ware

Cuisine Anfu ham

Anfu ham

Religion

Pure Land Buddhism

Hakka culture (language, architecture)

Donglin Temple

Pavilion of Prince Teng

Mount Lu National Park

National Park

Zhelin Reservoir

Category

Commons

Donghu District

Xihu District

Qingyunpu District

Qingshanhu District

Xinjian District

Honggutan District

Nanchang County

Anyi County

Jinxian County

Zhushan District

Changjiang District

Leping city

Fuliang County

Anyuan District

Xiangdong District

Lianhua County

Shangli County

Luxi County

Xunyang District

Lianxi District

Chaisang District

Gongqingcheng city

Ruichang city

Lushan city

Wuning County

Xiushui County

Yongxiu County

De'an County

Duchang County

Hukou County

Pengze County

Yushui District

Fenyi County

Yuehu District

Yujiang District

Guixi city

Zhanggong District

Nankang District

Ganxian District

Ruijin city

Longnan city

Xinfeng County

Dayu County

Shangyou County

Chongyi County

Anyuan County

Dingnan County

Quannan County

Ningdu County

Yudu County

Xingguo County

Huichang County

Xunwu County

Shicheng County

Jizhou District

Qingyuan District

Jinggangshan city

Ji'an County

Yongfeng County

Yongxin County

Xingan County

Taihe County

Xiajiang County

Suichuan County

Anfu County

Jishui County

Wan'an County

Yuanzhou District

Fengcheng city

Zhangshu city

Gao'an city

Tonggu County

Jing'an County

Yifeng County

Fengxin County

Wanzai County

Shanggao County

Linchuan District

Dongxiang District

Nanfeng County

Le'an County

Jinxi County

Nancheng County

Zixi County

Yihuang County

Guangchang County

Lichuan County

Chongren County

Xinzhou District

Guangfeng District

Guangxin District

Dexing city

Poyang County

Wuyuan County

Yanshan County

Yugan County

Hengfeng County

Yiyang County

Yushan County

Wannian County

# Manchu cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Manchu cuisine or Manchurian cuisine is the cuisine of Manchuria (Northeast China) and Outer Manchuria (also known as Russian Manchuria). It uses the traditional Manchu staple foods of millet, soybean, peas, corn and broomcorn. It relies heavily on preserved foods (often pickled) due to the harsh winters and scorching summers in Northeast China. Manchu cuisine is also known for grilling, wild meat, strong flavours and the wide use of soy sauce. Manchu cuisine is more wheat-based than Han Chinese cuisines.

History

The ancestors of the Manchus were the Jurchen and Mohe people. The Mohe enjoyed eating pork, practised pig farming extensively, and were mainly sedentary, and also used both pig and dog skins for coats. They were predominantly farmers who grew soybean, wheat, millet and rice, in addition to engaging in hunting.

The Manchu Han Imperial Feast (满汉全席; 滿漢全席; Mǎnhàn quán xí) includes many notable dishes in Manchu cuisine. This banquet combined the best cuisine from the Manchus, Han Chinese, Mongols, Hui people and Tibetans. It included 108 dishes (of which 54 are northern dishes and 54 are southern dishes) that would be eaten over three days. The Manchu palace banquets were subdivided into six grades. The first, second and third grades were prepared for deceased imperial ancestors. The fourth grade food was served to the imperial family during the Chinese New Year and other festivals. The fifth and sixth grades were served on all other occasions.

Notable dishes in Manchu cuisine

The typical Manchu dishes include pickled vegetables. Manchurian hot pot (满洲火锅; 滿洲火鍋; Mǎnzhōu huǒguō) is a traditional dish, made with pickled Chinese cabbage, pork and mutton.

Bairou xuechang (白肉血肠; 白肉血腸; báiròu xuěcháng; 'white meat blood sausage') is a soup with pork and blood sausage and pickled Chinese cabbage.

Suziyie doubao (苏子叶豆包; 蘇子葉豆包; sūzǐyè dòubāo) is a steamed bun, stuffed with sweetened, mashed beans and wrapped with perilla leaves outside.

Sachima is a candied fritter similar to Tatar Çäkçäk, which is a very popular sweet.

Other common dishes are:

suancai cuan bairou (酸菜白肉; suāncài báiròu; sour vegetables with boiled meat),

suan tangzi (酸汤子; 酸湯子; suān tāngzǐ; a sour soup with fermented corn flour),

di san xian (stir-fried eggplant, potato and green pepper),

Manchu sausage,

lüdagun (a steamed roll made of bean flour), and

niushe bing (牛舌饼; 牛舌餅; níushé bǐng; a type of cake).

Manchurian/Manchow dishes in India

The popular Indian Chinese style of cooking known as Manchurian, where an ingredient is first deep-fried and then sauteed in a spicy sauce, was invented in India and bears little if any relation to actual Manchu cooking. Manchow soup is also an Indian creation.

See also

China portal

Food portal

India portal

China–India relations Chindians Historical and cultural relations between China and India

Chindians

Historical and cultural relations between China and India

List of deep-fried foods

List of vegetable dishes

Manchow soup

Manchurian (dish)

References

^ Gorelova, Liliya M., ed. (2002). Handbook of Oriental Studies. Section 8 Uralic & Central Asian Studies, Manchu Grammar. Vol. Seven Manchu Grammar. Brill Academic Pub. pp. 13–14. ISBN 9004123075.

^ Rawski, Evelyn Sakakida (1998). The Last Emperors: A Social History of Qing Imperial Institutions. University of California Press. ISBN 052092679X.

^ "The Manchu Ethnic Group" (PDF). MSD China. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-10-07. Retrieved 2011-05-01.

^ Mukherjee, Sipra; Gooptu, Sarvani (2009). "The Chinese community of Calcutta". In Banerjee, Himadri (ed.). Calcutta Mosaic: Essays and Interviews on the Minority Communities of Calcutta. Anthem Press. pp. 131–142. ISBN 978-81-905835-5-8.

# Northeastern Chinese cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Northeastern Chinese cuisine is a style of Chinese cuisine in Northeast China. While many dishes originated in Shandong cuisine and Manchu cuisine, it is also influenced by the cuisines of Russia, Beijing, Mongolia, and North Korea. It partially relies on preserved foods and large portions due to the region's harsh winters and relatively short growing seasons.

Pickling is a very common form of food preservation. Suan cai, or pickled Chinese cabbage, is traditionally made by most households in giant clay pickling vats. Another distinct feature that distinguishes Northeastern cuisine from other Chinese cuisines is the serving of more raw vegetables and raw seafood in the coastal areas.

Simmering, braising and sautéing are ubiquitous cooking techniques used in the Northeast, producing many of the region's signature dishes.

Northeast Chinese include a large component of wheat and maize in their daily diet in the form of noodles, steamed bun and cornbread. Popular dishes include pork and chive dumplings, suan cai hot pot, cumin and caraway lamb, congee, tea eggs, nian doubao (sticky rice buns with sweet red bean paste filling, and unsweetened version with other beans also), congee with several types of pickles (mustard root is highly popular), sachima (traditional Manchu sweet) and cornmeal congee.

Due to its riverine environment, the Heilongjiang style of Northeastern Chinese cuisine is famed for its fish banquet, specialising in anadromous fish such as the trout banquet and the sturgeon banquet, and similarly, due to its mountainous environment, the Jilin style of Northeastern Chinese cuisine is famed for its dishes that use game animals even though only farm-raised animals are allowed for culinary use under the law. Liaoning cuisine is a rising star among Chinese cuisines and has become increasingly popular recently. Furthermore, Liaoning chefs have continuously won awards in recent culinary arts competitions in China.

Ingredients

The climate of Northern China is too cold and dry to support rice cultivation. The main staple crop of these regions is wheat. The Uyghur use wheat flour in bread recipes, but other ethnic groups use it for noodles or steamed dumplings. Other important grains include sorghum, maize and millet. Sorghum and millet are used to make an alcoholic beverage called maotai.

Classic dishes

Northeastern hot pot (东北火锅, pork belly hot pot with suan cai)

Borscht (羅宋湯)

Guo bao rou (锅包肉)

The Four Northeastern Simmerings (东北四大炖) Pork with cellophane noodle (猪肉炖粉条) Free-range chicken with honey fungus (小鸡炖榛蘑) Catfish with eggplant (鲇鱼炖茄子) Pork ribs with common bean (排骨炖豆角)

Pork with cellophane noodle (猪肉炖粉条)

Free-range chicken with honey fungus (小鸡炖榛蘑)

Catfish with eggplant (鲇鱼炖茄子)

Pork ribs with common bean (排骨炖豆角)

Northeastern hotchpotch (东北乱炖, potato, bean, Chinese cabbage, eggplant, wood ear and random vegetables stewed with pork belly)

Fatty pork with blood sausage (白肉血肠)

Di san xian (地三鲜, fried potato, green pepper and eggplant)

Bear paws stew (扒熊掌)

Shredded potato stir-fry (酸辣土豆丝)

Caramelized sweet potato (拔丝地瓜)

Qié hé (茄盒), stuffed eggplant

Mantou (饅頭), steamed bun/bread

Wotou (窝头), cornbread

Potato-stuffed dumplings (土豆饺子)

Hua juan (flower twists, 花卷), steamed scallion roll

Dongbei lengmian (东北冷面)

Snacks

SachimaSachima (沙琪玛)

Mahua with teaMahua (snack) (麻花)

Red Bean Bun (豆沙包)

Dragon's beard candyDragon's beard candy (龙须糖)

See also

List of Chinese dishes

Chinatown, Flushing

References

^ Roberts, J.A.G. China to Chinatown: Chinese Food in the West. pp. 15–16.

^ "Chinese potato stir-fry (酸辣土豆丝)". Apr 2, 2017. Retrieved Sep 22, 2020.

External links

Wiki Cookbook: Cuisine of China

# Shaanxi cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Shaanxi cuisine, or Qin cuisine, is derived from the native cooking styles of Shaanxi Province and parts of northwestern China.

Description

Shaanxi cuisine makes elaborate use of ordinary ingredients and is characterized by its noodles, lamb/mutton dishes, and heavy use of strong and complex savory flavors such as salt, garlic, onion and vinegar. Sugar is rarely used. The main cooking methods are steaming, frying and stir-frying.

Due to its geographical location between the provinces of Shanxi and Sichuan, the flavors of Shaanxi cuisine include both sour and spicy of Szechuan flavors and the salty flavors of Shanxi. Shaanxi cuisine's primary flavor profile is "fragrant spicy" (香辣).

Shaanxi cuisine uses more noodles than other Chinese cuisines, but Shaanxi noodles are almost always thicker and longer than those of Beijing cuisine, and to a lesser degree, Shanxi cuisine, especially the Biangbiang ones.

The taste of Shaanxi cuisine can be quite spicy. However, this can be diluted by adding soy sauce.[citation needed] Many different types of meat are used in Shaanxi cuisine such as duck, lamb, chicken, and beef. Additionally, there are spiced, vegetarian dishes where no meat is included, resulting in these dishes being considerably spicier.

Regional styles

Shaanxi cuisine includes three regional styles:

Northern Shaanxi style is characterized by the wide use of steaming as the method of cooking. The most common meat is pork, although lamb and mutton are also popular. Beans and soups are also enjoyed by many.

Guanzhong style, which uses pork and lamb / mutton equally with heavy meaty flavors and tastes.

Hanzhong style, similar to Szechuan, is marked by spiciness.

Dishes

The following is a selected list of dishes in Shaanxi cuisine.

^ Locally, it is pronounced jìng gāo.

References

^ Cosmo, Serena (October 24, 2017). The Ultimate Pasta and Noodle Cookbook: Over 300 Recipes for Classic Italian and International Recipes. Simon and Schuster. ISBN 978-1-60433-733-4.

^ Foo, Susanna (2002). Susanna Foo Chinese Cuisine: The Fabulous Flavors & Innovative Recipes of North America's Finest Chinese Cook. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. ISBN 978-0-618-25435-4.

^ "Biangbiang Shaanxi street food - Lifestyle - Chinadaily.com.cn". www.chinadaily.com.cn. Retrieved March 21, 2024.

^ 人民音乐出版社编辑部; 陕北民歌博物馆编 (July 1, 2021). 陕北民歌映画. Beijing Book Co. Inc. ISBN 978-7-103-06077-3.

^ Tudoujiang (土豆酱) (June 25, 2015). "Shaanxi on the tip of your tongue (舌尖上的陕西)". Red Meal Net (红餐网) (in Chinese). Retrieved June 26, 2017.

^ a b 秦闻客户端 (November 28, 2024). ""jìng "还是"zèng " "甑糕"的"甑"怎么读" ["jìng" or "zèng" – How the "Zeng" in "Zenggao" is pronounced]. 人民日报 [People's Daily] (in Chinese). Retrieved September 10, 2025.

Xianyang

Weinan

Hanzhong

Ankang

Yan'an

Shangluo

Tongchuan

History

Politics

Economy

Cities

Guanzhong

Shaanbei

Shaannan

Chang'an University

Fourth Military Medical University

Northwest A&F University

Northwest University

Northwestern Polytechnical University

Shaanxi Normal University

Xi'an Jiaotong University

Xidian University

Biángbiáng noodles

Cuisine

Qinqiang opera

Three Qins

Xintianyou

Daqin Pagoda

Banpo Neolithic village

Zhao Mausoleum

Mount Hua

Mausoleum of the First Qin Emperor and Terracotta Army Museum

Bell Tower and Drum Tower of Xi'an

Forest of Stone Steles Museum

Shaanxi History Museum

Qianling Mausoleum

Category

Commons

This article related to Chinese cuisine is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

# Shanghai cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Shanghai cuisine (Chinese: 上海菜; pinyin: Shànghǎi cài; Shanghainese: zaon⁶ he⁵ tshe¹; IPA: [zɑ̃¹¹ he⁴⁴ tsʰᴇ¹¹]), also known as Hu cuisine (simplified Chinese: 沪菜; traditional Chinese: 滬菜; pinyin: Hù cài; Shanghainese: wu⁶ tshe¹; IPA: [ɦu¹¹ tsʰᴇ⁴⁴]), is a popular style of Chinese food. In a narrow sense, Shanghai cuisine refers only to what is traditionally called Benbang cuisine (本帮菜; 本幫菜; Běnbāng cài; pen⁵ paon¹ tshe⁵; 'local cuisine') which originated in Shanghai. In a broader sense, it refers to complex styles of cooking developed under the influence of neighboring Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces.

The dishes within the cuisine need to master the three elements of "color, aroma, and taste" (色香味).[clarification needed] Like other cuisines within China, Shanghai cuisine emphasizes the use of seasonings, the quality of raw ingredients, and preserving the original flavors of ingredients. The adoption of Western influence in Shanghai cuisine resulted in a unique cooking style known as Haipai cuisine (海派菜).

Characteristic features

The four classic words used to describe Shanghai food are "浓油赤酱", meaning that Shanghai food uses a considerable amount of oil and soy sauce. Both dark soy sauce and regular soy sauce are used in Shanghai cooking, which gives dishes a red and shiny appearance. Dark soy sauce creates a dark amber color in dishes, while regular soy sauce enhances the flavor. Sugar is often added to soy sauce.

Dishes are prepared using various methods, such as baking, stewing, braising, steaming, and deep-frying. Fish, crab, and chicken are made "drunken" using spirits and brisk cooking techniques. Salted meats and preserved vegetables are commonly used in dishes. Rice is more commonly served than noodles or other wheat products.

Shanghai cuisine emphasizes the use of condiments while retaining the original flavors of raw ingredients. It aims for lightness in flavor and is mellower and slightly sweet in taste compared to some other Chinese cuisines. Sweet and sour is a typical Shanghai taste. In Shanghai cuisine, the presentation of dishes is also important. Ingredients are carefully cut and arranged to create a harmonious color scheme.[citation needed]

In the early 20th century, Shanghai families did not typically include fish in their daily meals, despite the city being a port town. Meat was considered a luxury, and meals were typically made up of vegetables, beans, and rice. Families would typically eat meat or fish for four meals within a month, on the second, eighth, sixteenth, and twenty-third days, which became known as dang hun. Nowadays, with increased awareness of nutrition, people eat more low-sugar and low-fat food and more vegetables to promote a healthier diet.

History

Shanghai cuisine is the youngest of the ten major cuisines of China, although it still has more than 400 years of history. Traditionally called Benbang cuisine, it originated in the Ming and Qing dynasties (c. 1368–1840). During the reign of Emperor Jiaqing and Emperor Guangxu of the Qing Dynasty, a food stall was set up in the old city of Shanghai called "Shovel Bang" (铲刀帮).[citation needed] After 1930, as Shanghai's industry and commerce rapidly developed, the main customers of Benbang cuisine were an emerging class of workers. As a result, the proportion of inexpensive dishes in Benbang cuisine began to decrease.

In the later part of the 19th century, after Shanghai became a major domestic and international trading port, Benbang dishes underwent substantial change. After the opening of Shanghai port in 1843, sixteen different catering schools opened in Shanghai. Anhui cuisine was the first to gain popularity in Shanghai, followed by Suxi cuisine, Cantonese cuisine, Huaiyang cuisine, and Beijing cuisine. In the 1930s, Suxi cuisine was prevalent in almost half of Shanghai's restaurants. Guangdong cuisine was highly popular among both residents of Shanghai and foreigners. As a result of adopting influences from other cuisines, the flavors of Shanghai cuisine became more complex.

Western influence in Shanghai cuisine resulted in the development of a unique cooking style known as Haipai cuisine (海派菜). At the time, eating Western food was considered fashionable, but Chinese people initially struggled to adapt to certain aspects of Western cuisine, such as rare steak. Western food in Shanghai was influenced by many countries but formed its own distinct characteristics. Russian Shanghai Western food, which typically included one main dish and one soup (such as borscht, bread and butter), became particularly popular in Shanghai due to its economic benefits.[clarification needed] Before 1937, there were over 200 Western restaurants in Shanghai, particularly on Xiafei Road and Fuzhou Road.

Nowadays, Shanghai's traditional cuisine is usually found only in home-cooked meals and some old Benbang restaurants. Shanghai is now more famous for its numerous exotic restaurants, especially those serving Japanese and French food.

Notable dishes in Shanghai cuisine

Breakfast

Breakfast food in Shanghai is varied and contains foods mainly made from wheat, rice, and flour. Many of them are influenced by Cantonese, Jiangsu, and Zhejiang cuisine, and through historical precipitation[clarification needed], these breakfasts have slowly become favorites of people in Shanghai today. The most classic Shanghai breakfast is called "The Four Warriors" (四大金刚; 四大金剛; Sìdà Jīngāng; sy⁵ du⁶ cin¹ kaon¹). These are the four most popular breakfast choices for Shanghainese.

Glutinous rice rolls (粢飯; cīfàn; tshy¹ ve⁶)

Soy milk (豆浆; 豆漿; dòujiāng; deu⁶ cian¹)

Chinese cruller (油条; 油條; yóutiáo; yeu⁶ diau⁶)

Sesame pancake (大饼; 大餅; dàbǐng; du⁶ pin⁵)

Seafood

Seafood is commonly seen in Shanghai cuisine. These are some popular dishes.

Eel noodles (鳗鱼面; 鰻魚麵; Mányú Miàn; moe⁶ ng⁶ mi⁶) – Made with sliced eels and wheat noodles.

Scallion stewed crucian carp (葱烧鲫鱼; 蔥燒鯽魚; Cōngshāo Jìyú; tshon¹ sau¹ ciq⁷ ng⁶) – The preparation of this common crucian carp dish is quite involved and complex. It requires a significant amount of time to prepare, as the fish must be soaked in vinegar, deep-fried, stewed for a prolonged period, and cooled to make it tender enough to be consumed with all its bones. The difficulty in perfecting this dish, as well as its complexity, led to it being used as a test by families when recruiting a cook.

Shanghai hairy crab (上海毛蟹; Shànghǎi Máo Xiè; zaon⁶ he⁵ mau⁶ ha⁵) – A variety of Chinese mitten crab. The crab is usually steamed with ginger, and eaten with a dipping sauce of rice vinegar, sugar, and ginger. Crab meat can be mixed with lard to make xiefen, or consumed in xiaolongbao or with tofu.

Squirrel-shaped mandarin fish (松鼠桂鱼; 松鼠桂魚; Sōngshǔ Guīyú; son¹ tshy⁵ kue⁵ ng⁶) – This dish features fresh mandarin fish and combines sweet and sour flavors. The fish is deep-fried and has a crispy exterior and soft interior. The dish is yellow and red, and it is displayed in the shape of a squirrel when plated. Hot broth is poured over it, which produces a high-pitched sound. It could be referring to a cooking technique where the addition of hot liquid (like broth) to certain ingredients (perhaps something crispy or dry) results in a distinct sound, typically due to the rapid steaming or bubbling.[clarification needed]

Crystal shrimp (水晶虾仁; 水晶蝦仁; Shuǐjīng xiārén) – A dish featuring shrimp and eggs, with no additional ingredients. The shrimp is cooked until just translucent, giving its "crystal" name. Well-prepared crystal shrimp is tender yet crispy, with a robust shrimp flavor and a reddish hue tinged with milky white.

Meat and poultry

Beggar's chicken (叫花鸡; 叫花雞; jiàohuā jī; ciau⁵ ho⁵ ci¹ or ciau⁵ hua⁵ ci¹) – Beggar's chicken calls for a chicken wrapped in lotus leaves, encased in mud, and roasted in fire, resulting in a slice of delicious and tender meat. According to a legend, a beggar in the Qing dynasty stole and hid a chicken under mud, hence the name of the dish.

Lion's HeadLion's head (狮子头; 獅子頭; shīzi tóu; sy¹ tsy⁵ deu⁶) – This dish gets its name from the shape of the pork meatball resembling a lion's head and the cabbage, or other vegetables, resembling the lion's mane. It is served in two varieties: white (or plain) and red. The red version is cooked with soy sauce and is typically served in a white pot.

Red braised pork belly (红烧肉; 紅燒肉; hóngshāo ròu; ghon⁶ sau¹ gnioq⁸) – Braised pork belly cooked in Shanghainese soy sauce for a long time, resulting in a lump of juicy and tender meat.Red braised pork belly, a classic Shanghai dish

Sweet and sour spareribs (糖醋排骨; táng cù páigǔ; daon⁶ tshu⁵ ba⁶ kueq⁷) – The fresh pork ribs, which appear shiny and red after being cooked, are traditionally deep-fried, then coated in a sweet and sour sauce.

Dongpo pork (东坡肉; dōngpōròu) - The pork is typically cut into thick, approximately 5 centimeter (2.0 inch) squares, with an even distribution of fat and lean meat, while retaining the skin.

Pork ribs and rice cakes (排骨年糕; Páigǔ niángāo) - A traditional dish in Shanghai. This dish uses pork ribs paired with small and thin rice cakes, which are cooked through oil blanching and simmering. The pork ribs have a golden color, a crispy surface, and tender meat while the rice cakes are soft and chewy.

Noodles

Shanghai fried noodles (上海炒面; 上海炒麵; Shànghǎi Chǎomiàn; zaon⁶ he⁵ tshau⁵ mi⁶) – Shanghai fried noodles are fried thick noodles (sometimes udon) with soy sauce. It is most commonly cooked with bok choy and pork.

Chilled noodles (冷面; 冷麵; Lěngmiàn; lan⁶ mi⁶) – This dish is a combination of chilled noodles mixed with various sauces and toppings. Traditionally, the noodles are steamed before being cooked for improved flavor. After the noodles are cooled, they are mixed with sesame oil, soy sauce, and peanut sauce. People often add additional toppings when making it at home, and commonly use leftover food they have in the fridge.

Noodle soup (汤面; 湯麵; Tāngmiàn; thaon¹ mi⁶) – Su-style noodles are a common type of noodle soup. There are two different soup bases, and it is typically garnished with various toppings, mostly meat.

Scallion oil noodles (葱油拌面; 蔥油拌麵; Cōng yóu bàn miàn) – A popular noodle dish in Shanghai that can be found in many local restaurants and food stalls. The scallion oil is made by crisping and browning chopped scallions in hot oil. The dish is then coated in scallion oil, soy sauce, and spices, blending savory, sweet, and mildly spicy flavors.

A bowl of borscht garnished with sour cream and dillBorscht (罗宋汤; 羅宋湯; Luósòng Tāng; lu⁶ son⁵ thaon¹) – This dish is a combination of tomatoes and beef. It is considered a classic Shanghai dish that incorporates local elements of Shanghai cuisine. Originally introduced to Shanghai from Russia, it has now become a common dish in Shanghai homes.

Snacks

Shengjian mantouShengjian mantou (生煎馒头; 生煎饅頭; Shēngjiān Mántóu; san¹ ci¹ moe⁶ deu⁶) or Shengjianbao (生煎包; Shēngjiān bāo; san¹ ci¹ pau¹) – A Shanghai mantou is a round bun filled with pork, similar to a xiaolongbao but thicker due to the addition of yeast. It is pan-fried and topped with sesame seeds and chopped scallions for flavor.

Xiaolongbao (小笼包; 小籠包; Xiǎolóngbāo; shiau⁵ lon⁶ pau¹, known locally as 小笼馒头; 小籠饅頭; shiau⁵ lon⁶ moe⁶ deu⁶) – A type of steamed dumpling made with a thin skin of dough and stuffed with pork or minced crab meat, and soup. The delicious soup stays inside the dumpling until it is bitten.

Guotie (锅贴; 鍋貼; ku¹ thiq⁷) or potstickers – Essentially Jiaozi (Chinese dumplings), but rather than being boiled or steamed, they are first fried in oil on one side, then steamed by adding a small amount of water and covering the pan. When the water evaporates, the dumpling is crispy on one side and soft and chewy on the other. Traditionally, guotie is filled with ground pork and finely chopped Chinese scallions or cabbage.

Savory mooncakes (鲜肉月饼; 鮮肉月餅; shi¹ gnioq⁸ yuq⁸ pin⁵) – Mooncakes consumed in other parts of China are usually sweet, with fillings such as sesame seeds, walnuts, and red bean paste. However, in Shanghai, during the Mid-Autumn Festival, locals consume a savory version of mooncakes filled with meat. This type of mooncake is usually only available at select local restaurants.

Desserts

Tangyuan (汤圆; 湯圓; Tāngyuán; thaon¹ yoe⁶) – A type of sweet dumpling made of glutinous rice flour and stuffed with black sesame. Qibao has a number of tangyuan vendors.

See also

Chinese cuisine

Haipai cuisine

Jiangsu cuisine

List of Chinese dishes

References

^ Hanchao Lu (1999). Beyond the Neon Lights: Everyday Shanghai in the Early Twentieth Century. University of California Press. ISBN 0520215648.

^ "海纳百川的本帮菜". 61.129.0.41. Retrieved 2025-01-26.

^ 网易 (2019-09-04). "寻味上海① | 我们查了查本帮菜的户口簿，发现了它的祖宗。". www.163.com. Retrieved 2022-04-22.

^ "SHANGHAI FOOD STORIES - HAIPAI 海派 CUISINE". SHANGHAI FOOD STORIES - HAIPAI 海派 CUISINE. Archived from the original on January 31, 2023. Retrieved 2022-04-22.

^ "上海故事 | "吃西菜到红房子"：海派西餐那些事_湃客_澎湃新闻-The Paper". www.thepaper.cn. Retrieved 2022-04-22.

^ "The Breakfast Foods You Have to Try in Shanghai". Saveur. 2018-11-13. Retrieved 2022-04-22.

^ a b c d Deason, Rachel (14 February 2017). "Traditional Shanghainese Dishes You Must Try". Culture Trip. Archived from the original on 2019-12-11. Retrieved 2019-12-15.

^ Lee, Jesse (2008), 上海味兒, 旗林文化, ISBN 978-986-6655-14-2

^ "The That's Guide to Gorging on Shanghai Hairy Crab". www.thatsmags.com. Archived from the original on 11 April 2019. Retrieved 10 August 2019.

^ "Zoobenthos Archived 2015-01-09 at the Wayback Machine". The Shanghai Jiuduansha Wetland Nature Reserve (Shanghai), 2014.

^ 名家名菜—松鼠鳜鱼. home.meishichina.com. Archived from the original on 28 August 2019. Retrieved 28 August 2019.

^ "Crystal Shrimp". english.shanghai.gov.cn. Archived from the original on 31 December 2023. Retrieved 2024-07-10.

^ 上海糖醋小排. www.meishij.net. Archived from the original on 29 August 2019. Retrieved 29 August 2019.

^ "Pork Chops and Rice Cakes". english.shanghai.gov.cn. Archived from the original on 10 July 2024. Retrieved 2024-07-10.

^ "Shanghai Fried Noodles (Cu Chao Mian)". The Woks of Life. 2014-12-14. Retrieved 2020-09-30.

^ Tan, Tony (11 January 2019). "Shanghai-style chilled noodles recipe". Gourmet Traveller. Retrieved 2020-09-30.

^ "Scallion Oil Noodles". english.shanghai.gov.cn. Archived from the original on 10 July 2024. Retrieved 2024-07-10.

^ "Shanghai-Style Red Vegetable Soup (罗宋汤 - Luo Song Tang)". The Woks of Life. 2018-10-27. Retrieved 2022-04-23.

^ a b Wei, Clarissa (2017-04-27). "A Guide to 14 of the Most Iconic Foods in Shanghai". Vice. Retrieved 2019-12-15.

^ "7 Types Of Chinese Dumplings In Shanghai: Dumpling Guide". almostlanding.com. 2 June 2020. Retrieved 21 December 2020.

^ "Shanghai Savory Mooncakes (Xian Rou Yue Bing)". The Woks of Life. 2015-09-19. Retrieved 2022-04-23.

External links

china.org.cn Top 10 most famous Shanghai snacks September 12, 2011

Century egg

Cifantuan

Eight treasure duck

Eight treasure rice

Hairy crab

Jiaozi

Lion's head

Nian gao

Qingtuan

Red braised pork belly

Shanghai cumian

Shanghai fried noodles

Shengjian mantou

Shumai

Song gao

Stinky tofu

Tangbao

Tea egg

Wonton

Xiaolongbao

Yan Du Xian

Youtiao

Beijing cuisine

Cantonese cuisine

Hong Kong cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

United States

Latvia

Israel

Yale LUX

# Shanxi cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Shanxi cuisine, or Jin cuisine, is derived from the native cooking styles of Shanxi Province in China. It is famous for noodles, fried flatbread (da bing) and sour tastes. The cuisine is also famed for using its locally produced vinegar, just like in Huaiyang cuisine, but the flavour is totally different.

Generally speaking, Shanxi cuisine is not well known to people outside the region. This is partially because Shanxi is less populated than other provinces in China. Being a very traditional region where the lifestyle of locals has not been disturbed, many outsiders find Shanxi cuisine too authentic and traditional.

While pork and chicken are common in Shanxi, one of the most popular meat sources is lamb. Goat, and sheep offal is also often used. For example, lamb soup is usually cooked with livers, stomach and other offal. As a traditional area with strong cultural connections to Northwest Asian nomadic nations and minorities, the use of lamb in Shanxi cuisine presents a unique fusion of the culinary traditions of Northern Chinese minorities and Han Chinese. For example, using ground lamb and carrots as a dumpling filling, is something that is not found in any other Chinese cooking styles. Ground pork with chopped dill is another popular dumpling filling.

The main staples reflect the crops commonly grown in Shanxi: millet, sorghum, and wheat. Pork, mushrooms, potatoes and turnips are frequently used in dishes.

Styles

Shanxi cuisine comprises three styles:

Northern Shanxi style: Represented by dishes from Datong and Mount Wutai, with emphasis on colour and oil. More oil and seasoning are important.

Southern Shanxi style: Represented by dishes from Linfen and the Grand Canal regions, specialising in seafood, despite the fact that Shanxi is a landlocked province, the taste is light.

Central Shanxi style: Represented by dishes from Taiyuan, which presents a mainstream cooking style compared to both the northern and southern regions of the province. It is the combination of southern and northern flavors, with fine selection of ingredients and a salty taste. Before the 1970s, as local cuisine and professional cooking had not been influenced by Cantonese and Sichuan styles, Taiyuan cuisine contained a number of noodle dishes, Chinese Muslim dishes, local hot pot dishes, and meat dishes using fresh water seafood and lamb. The region is especially famous for its knife-shaven noodles (dao xiao mian).

Shanxi mature vinegar

Shanxi mature vinegar, also called Shanxi lao chencu (山西老陈醋; 山西老陳醋; Shānxī lǎo chén cù) in Chinese, is a special type of vinegar produced in Shanxi Province. Based on the techniques used to prepare the vinegar, it should be more accurately called "aged Shanxi vinegar" or "extra aged vinegar".

Shanxi old vinegar is one of the four famous vinegars in China, which has a history of more than 3,000 years and has the reputation of "the best vinegar in the world". The longer the vinegar is stored, the more fragrant and tasty it is. It's called Old Chen vinegar because it was born thousands of years ago and has been inherited until today while maintaining the basic technology and with the continuous improvement of brewing technology. Shanxi old vinegar can be kept for 9–12 months in general, and some better vinegars can be kept for at least 3–10 years. Some of the methods used in brewing the vinegar have been considered intellectual properties and are under the protection of Chinese laws.

It is a famous product of the region, and is produced primarily in Qingxu County, a vicinity of the provincial capital of Taiyuan. The Shanxi Vinegar Culture Museum has been built there. Local Taiyuan residents, especially those who have lived there for generations, prefer Donghu Mature Vinegar (东湖老陈醋; 東湖老陳醋; donghu) produced by Shanxi Mature Vinegar Group, which is the largest mature vinegar manufacturer in China. There is also Ninghuafu Yiyuanqing (宁化府益源庆; 寧化府益源慶; Nínghuàfǔ Yìyuánqìng), a brand of vinegar produced by the Yiyuanqing Company in the old downtown area of Taiyuan.

In the United States, some Asian grocery stores sell Shanxi mature vinegar. The common suppliers are Shanxi Mature Vinegar Group, a China Time-Honored Brand company since 1368, and Shuita Brand (水塔牌; Shuǐtǎ pái), a brewing company located in Qingxu County.

Notable dishes

References

^ punkoranje (2020-11-19). "Why is the "old vinegar" from Shanxi, China different?". Panda!Yoo. Retrieved 2022-04-19.

^ "Rice Vinegar (米醋)". Omnivore's Cookbook. Retrieved 2022-04-19.

^ "Photograph". Csn.com.cn. Archived from the original (JPG) on 8 February 2012. Retrieved 15 January 2015.

^ "China's First Vinegar Museum Opens". English.peopledaily.com. Retrieved 15 January 2015.

^ "Vinegar Culture Museum Opens in Shanxi". English.peopledaily.com. Retrieved 15 January 2015.

^ "Shanxi Mature Vinegar Group". Shanxi.chinadaily.com.cn. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 15 January 2015.

^ "Chefs Choice, Natural Brewed Mature Vinegar, Rice Vinegar direct from China (Mainland)". Sxvinegar.en.alibaba.com. Retrieved 15 January 2015.

^ [1] Archived July 14, 2014, at the Wayback Machine

^ 360 Cooking, Yong Le etc. eds., 2nd Edition, 2000, by Shanxi Publishing House of Science and Technology. (Original text is in simplified Chinese only)

^ 网易 (2019-12-26). "山西经典十大经典名菜！". www.163.com. Retrieved 2022-04-21.

History

Politics

Economy

Cities

Fen River

Hutuo River

Lüliang Mountains

Mount Heng

Mount Wutai

Taihang Mountains

Xiechi Lake

Yellow River

Shanxi University

Shanxi Medical University

Taiyuan Normal University

Zhongyuan Mandarin

Jin Chinese

Pu opera

Shanxi merchants

Cuisine

Bianjing Drum Tower

Dazhai

Great Wall of China

Hukou Waterfall

Mengshan Giant Buddha

Mount Heng

Pagoda of Fogong Temple

Pingyao Ancient City

Qiao Family Compound

Tianlongshan Grottoes

Yanmen Pass

Yungang Grottoes

Category

Commons

# Tianjin cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Tianjin cuisine (Tientsin cuisine), also known as Jin cuisine, refers to the native cooking styles of Tianjin, the largest port city in Northern China. Though heavily influenced by Beijing cuisine, Tianjin cuisine differs by being more focused on seafood. It is categorized by its freshness, saltiness and soft and crispy textures. Cooking methods include grilling, simmering, sautéing and steaming. With more than 300 years of history, the development of the Tianjin cuisine was highly dependent on the diet of boatmen and the salt trades due to its geographical location. Tianjin Food Street is a place where cross-cultural Chinese dishes may be found. Popular dishes include Eight Great Bowls, Four Great Stews, Tianjing goubuli, and Four Winter Delicacies, among others. Eight Great Bowls is a combination of eight different meat dishes. The Four Great Stews refers to a very large number of stews, including chicken, duck, seafood, beef, and mutton. Tianjin also has several famous snack items. Goubuli (狗不理包子) is a classic steamed stuffed bun (baozi) that is well-known throughout China. Guifaxiang (桂发祥麻花) is a traditional brand of mahua (twisted dough sticks).

Development

Tianjin cuisine was officially formed in 1662, when the first of eight most famous restaurants in Tianjin, Ju Qing Xing, was opened to congratulate the enthronement of Kangxi Emperor. In 1860, Tianjin became a treaty port and allowed the influx of foreign investment. Western cuisine has since then been introduced to the Tianjin cuisine. The most typical example is Kiessling's, the first foreign restaurant in Tianjin, founded by German Albert Kiessling.

Today, the Tianjin diet is mainly categorized into Hanmin (Han Chinese) cuisine, Islamic cuisine, Tianjin vegetarian cuisine and local snacks.

Differences between Tianjin and Beijing cuisines

One of the most distinctive traits involves Tianjin's higher use of seafood, particularly river fish and shrimp. This is primarily attributed to Tianjin's proximity to the sea. Although Beijing and Tianjin cuisines are both salty in the first taste, the latter contains the additional use of sugar, which results in a distinctive flavor. Those new to the Tianjin cuisine will immediately identify a slightly sweet taste embedded in the savory flavor.

Tianjin cuisine also uses more mutton and less pork in comparison to Beijing cuisine, and in the event of traditional holidays, mutton is a must for holiday dishes. In addition, the vegetables and meat are served separately from the noodles in Tianjin cuisines yet in Beijing, they are served together with the noodles.

Finally, Tianjin cuisines are partially influenced by neighbouring countries such as Russia and Japan. Scholars attribute this to the city's location as a treaty port, making its culture and, by extension, its cuisine more complex than other major Chinese cities such as Beijing.

Nanshi Cuisine Street

Nanshi Cuisine Street (南市食品街) holds more than 100 restaurants covering about 40,000 square metres in the area in Tianjin's Heping District. Notable establishments include Zheijiang Restaurant, Da Jin Haiwei, which specializes in seafood, and Erdouyan Fried Cake Shop, a century-old institution known for its rice-powder cakes that are fried in sesame oil.

Notable dishes in Tianjin cuisine

Before the 1980s, Jian bing guo zi were made of mung bean flour and millet flour, and eggs were not used to spread the Jianbing. Additionally, the auxiliary ingredients only included Tianmianjiang sauce and chopped green onion. After the 1980s, the mainstream practice of Jian bing guo zi gradually developed: according to the standard of the process of Jian bing guo zi published in 2018 (《天津地方传统名吃制作加工技术规范 天津煎饼馃子》), Jianbing (the curst of Jian bing guo zi) should be made of mung bean flour, millet flour, eggs, wheat flour, and the auxiliary materials include Tianmianjiang sauce, Furu (fermented bean curd), chopped green onion, chili oil, etc.

See also

Tenshindon, a Japanese Chinese dish named after Tianjin

List of Chinese dishes

References

^ "cchatty: Learn Chinese and Make Friends". www.cchatty.com. Retrieved 2021-01-18.

^ China Business Guide. Singapore: China Knowledge Press. 2004. p. 330. ISBN 9789814163002.

^ "最早「津菜」館聚慶成：創立津菜飯莊基本模式" (in Chinese (Hong Kong)). Retrieved 2021-01-18.

^ Nield, Robert (2015). China's Foreign Places: The Foreign Presence in China in the Treaty Port Era, 1840–1943. HKU Press.

^ "Concession Life: Exploring Tianjin's Famous Colonial Buildings". www.echinacities.com. Retrieved 2021-01-18.

^ China Knowledge Press, p. 330.

^ Thompson, Hugh; Lane, Katherine (2012). DK Eyewitness Travel Guide: China. London: Penguin. p. 77. ISBN 9780756684303.

^ "Nanshi Food Street, a food paradise in Tianjin". China.org.cn. January 5, 2016. Retrieved 28 June 2017.

^ Leffman, David; Lewis, Simon; Atiyah, Jeremy (2003). China. Rough Guides. p. 159. ISBN 9781843530190.

^ a b c d Santangelo, Jon (4 June 2017). "6 Delicious Traditional Dishes from Tianjin". Culture Trip. Retrieved 2021-01-18.

^ Santangelo, Jon (5 July 2017). "A Brief History of Ear Hole Fried Cake". Culture Trip. Retrieved 2019-03-10.

^ Elaine (2023-03-17). "Jian Bing - Jian bing guo zi". China Sichuan Food. Retrieved 2023-10-17.

^ 王, 建章 (2023-10-25), "T/TJCY 002—2018《天津地方传统名吃 制作加工技术规范 天津煎饼馃子》（解读）", 标准生活 (in Chinese), vol. 2018-08-15

^ "罾蹦鲤鱼【中国菜-天津十大经典名菜】". chihuoclub.com. Retrieved 2023-10-17.

^ a b Neal (4 August 2023). "Zengbeng Carp – the centerpiece of a grand feast – chinatripedia". Retrieved 2023-10-17.

^ "罾蹦鲤鱼_天津市烹饪协会". www.tjsprxh.org.cn. Retrieved 2023-10-17.

^ "老天津的素食素菜". m.xzbu.com. Retrieved 2023-10-17.

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

# Tibetan cuisine


Tibetan cuisine includes the culinary traditions and practices of the Tibetan people in the Tibet region. The cuisine reflects the Tibetan landscape of mountains and plateaus and includes influences from neighbors (including India and Nepal where many Tibetans abide). It is known for its use of noodles, goat, yak, mutton, dumplings, cheese (often from yak or goat milk), butter, yogurt (also from animals adapted to the Tibetan climate), and soups. Vegetarianism has been debated by religious practitioners since the 11th century but is not prevalent due to the difficulty of growing vegetables, and cultural traditions promoting consumption of meat.

Crops must be able to grow at high altitudes, although a few areas are at low enough altitude to grow crops such as rice, oranges, bananas and lemons. The most important crop is barley. Flour milled from roasted barley, called tsampa, is the staple food of Tibet, as well as sha phaley (meat and cabbage in bread). Balep is Tibetan bread eaten for breakfast and lunch. Various other types of balep bread and fried pies are consumed. Thukpa is a dinner staple consisting of vegetables, meat, and noodles of various shapes in broth. Tibetan cuisine is traditionally served with silverware, in contrast to other Himalayan cuisines, which are eaten by hand. Mustard seeds are cultivated and feature heavily in its cuisine.

Outside of the Tibet Autonomous Region, Tibetan cuisine is consumed in the Indian states of Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim, northern regions of Nepal such as Mustang and by Tibetan diaspora communities.

In larger Tibetan towns and cities, many restaurants now serve Sichuan-style Han Chinese food. Western imports and fusion dishes, such as fried yak and chips, are also popular. Nevertheless, many small restaurants serving traditional Tibetan dishes persist in both cities and the countryside.

Food culture

Cookware

Tibetans use pots, pans, cans, steamer pots and boxes made from various materials. Tibetan women carry large wooden containers, which can hold up to 25 liters, to fetch water once a day. Returning to the house, they pour the water into built-in copper cans that hold more than 100 liters. Cooking pots made from iron or brass are used on the stove. Traditionally, pans were used rarely, but are becoming increasingly popular. Wooden boxes are used to store tsampa, butter and cheese. Tibetans use elaborately woven baskets with matching lids to store dried fruits, rice and sugar. When travelling, they use the baskets to store dried meat and cheese. In Southern Tibet, mortars are indispensable for crushing chilis.

Dinnerware

Tibetan dinnerware is traditionally made from wood, but sometimes lacquered clay is used. According to local tradition, this handicraft was passed down for generations. Those who could afford to do so purchased high-quality porcelain bowls from elsewhere. In more modern times, other types of porcelain from China or elsewhere are used. Spoons are indispensable for most dishes. Poor people and children wore them around their necks to allow constant and easy access. Knives are sometimes used to eat fruits. Tibetans also use small soup bowls, while the rich used bowls of gold and silver.

Teacups are sometimes carried in the abdominal fold of the Chuba, a traditional costume. Wooden teacups made from dzabija wood are considered especially fine. They have a smooth surface, an impressive grain pattern and are made with a balanced form, which relates to the composition of the raw wood. They are comfortable to hold. The cups are costly and most cannot afford them. Lavish teacups often have a layer of silver inside, which is intended to make them easier to clean. The nobility and high lamas used stands and tops that were intricately ornamented with mythological motifs. The tops are used to preserve the scent of the tea. The most precious cups shipped from other provinces are made from white jade. They have no handles. The best teacups are made from metal or silver, which are used only for guests and on festival days. The silversmiths from Derge are known for their exquisite tea sets. Teapots are typically made from wood or clay, while the better ones are made from lavishly ornamented metals such as copper or brass.

The Dongmo is a tea-mixing cylinder used for making Tibetan butter tea. It usually has a volume of around 4 litres and is made from wood ornamented with brass. A whisk is placed in a hole on the top of the Dongmo and, with 15-20 vertical movements, the butter tea emulsifies.

Monastic kitchens

Tibetan monks are self-sufficient. They cook for themselves and raise money by praying for farmers and nomads or by performing rituals for the well-being of families. In monastery kitchens, large pots are used to make soups. During breaks in religious studies, the monks are served tea and soup. Novice monks walk through the rows and pour tea from richly decorated teapots.

Etiquette

Friendliness, hospitality, generosity and selflessness, derived from the principles of Tibetan Buddhism, are the basis of local etiquette. Behaviour which is egocentric or egoistic is regarded as inappropriate, and helping/supporting others is idealized. Combined with their belief in Karma - that everything that happens in life has a source in actions committed in the past - they easily process a loss, sickness or great misfortune as they believe this relieves them from the effects of past actions.

Guests witness this attitude. Upon arriving, a guest receives a Khata - a white silk scarf - that symbolizes joy for the visit and reverence for the guest. After entering, a guest's comfort and well-being is cared for in every way, including cooking. The guest may be offered tea, but instead of accepting immediately, the guest is culturally expected to politely decline - the guest too has to be exemplary. Without hesitating, the host (customarily the woman of the house) immediately serves the tea. The host pours and hands over the cup with both hands as a sign of respect. In the common protocol, the guest only takes a small sip before putting the cup down. The host will fill up the cup and ask the guest to drink again. This is repeated two more times before the guest empties the cup slowly. If the guest leaves the cup filled without drinking, this is regarded as a signal of contentment. Without asking, the cup will be taken away and the guest will often be offered Chang (barley beer). At the table, expectations are that individuals sit cross-legged, and it is considered impolite to stretch one's legs. In addition, one should never pass over body parts of another.[citation needed] Pastries may be served with tea. Offered a meal, the guest may politely refuse at first. Upon subsequent offering, the host may find out what the guest wants.

The goal of every host is to create a relaxed atmosphere and to give joy and pleasure.

Dishes

Other Tibetan foods include:

Sha Phaley - bread stuffed with seasoned beef and cabbage, which is then fashioned into semi-circular or circular shapes and which, according to regional variations, is either deep fried or pan fried like pot stickers.

Balep korkun - a central Tibetan flatbread cooked on a skillet rather than in an oven.

Tingmo (food) - a type of steamed bun, a heavier version of the Han Chinese baozi.

Thenthuk - a type of cold-weather soup made with noodles and various vegetables.

Shab Ta - Stir-fried meat tossed with celery, carrots and fresh green chili.

Gyurma (Juema) - a blood sausage with yak or sheep's blood and roasted barley flour or rice as filler

Sokham Bexe - fried dough, with butter and minced meat. It is said to be a favourite of the Dalai Lama and the Panchen Lama.

Dtowa Katsa - stewed tripe, with curry, fennel, monosodium glutamate and salt.

Lunggoi Katsa - stewed sheep's head, with curry, fennel, monosodium glutamate and salt.

Thue (cake) - a cheese cake pastry made with yak butter, brown sugar and water.

Masan - a pastry, made with tsampa, dry cubic or curd cheese, yak butter, brown sugar and water.

Shogo Momo - a type of momo using mashed potato with dough, shaped into balls, with a minced meat filling, served with bread crumbs.

Samkham Papleg - fried dough with yak butter or rapeseed oil.

Breads and fried dough foods

Papza Mogu - dough balls with melted butter, brown sugar, and dry curd cheese. They have a sweet and sour taste and are red in color.

De-Thuk - a type of gruel that includes yak or sheep stock along with rice, different types of Tibetan cheeses. Similar to Cantonese rice congee

Tsam-thuk - a type of gruel that uses yak or sheep stock and roasted barley flour as well as a variety of Tibetan cheeses.

Thukpa bhatuk - a common Tibetan noodle soup made with little bhasta noodles.

Sweet foods

Day-see - a Tibetan sweet dish with rice cooked in unsalted butter and mixed with raisins, droma (gourd shaped root found), dates and nuts. This dish is usually served only on Losar (Tibetan New Year).

Khapsey - Tibetan cookies or biscuits that are deep fried and made during celebrations such as the Tibetan New Year or weddings. Khapseys are fashioned into many different intricate shapes and textures. Some are sprinkled with powdered sugar while other shapes such as the donkey ear-shaped khapseys are used for decoration.

Desserts

Holiday dishes

Guthuk - is traditionally eaten before Losar

Khapse - pastries for Losar called nyapsha

Changkol (food)

Cheeses, yogurt and butter

Tibetan cheeses, yogurt and butter are staples. Varieties include soft cheese curds resembling cottage cheese made from buttermilk called chura loenpa (or ser). Hard cheese is called chura kampo. Extra hard cheese, made from solidified yogurt, is called chhurpi, and is also found in Sikkim and Nepal. Another type of cheese called shosha or churul, with a flavor said to resemble Limburger, is also eaten. It is made from cream and the skin of milk.

Beverages

Most Tibetans drink many cups of yak butter tea daily[citation needed]. Jasmine tea is also sometimes available.

Brick tea is made by methods only distantly related to those employed in China or Sri Lanka (Ceylon). When the water boils, a great handful of the stuff is crumbled into it and allowed to stew for between five and ten minutes, until the whole infusion is so opaque that it looks almost black. At this stage a pinch of salt is added; the Tibetans always put salt, never sugar, in their tea. I have been told that they sometimes add a little soda, in order to give the beverage a pinkish tinge, but I never saw this done in Sikang. They very seldom, on the other hand, drink tea without butter in it. If you are at home, you empty the saucepan into a big wooden churn, straining the tea through a colander made of reed or horsehair. Then you drop a large lump of butter into it, and, after being vigorously stirred, this brew is transferred to a huge copper teapot and put on a brazier to keep it hot. When you are traveling, you do not normally take a churn with you, so everyone fills his wooden bowl with tea, scoops a piece of butter out of a basket, puts it in the bowl, stirs the mixture gently with his finger, and, finally, drinks the tea.

Butter tea is the national beverage. Although butter tea is the most popular tea, black tea is also fairly popular. Jasmine grows in Eastern Tibet. Most likely, Tibetans took absorbed jasmine tea from the Han Chinese cultural sphere. Spice tea is very popular among exiles who live in India and Nepal. It is almost unknown in Tibet. Most likely, it was adopted from Indian culture. Dara is the Tibetan word for buttermilk. It refers to the yogurt drink. It is also used for Indian Lassi.

Alcoholic beverages

Traditionally, Tibetan Buddhism prohibited the consumption of alcoholic beverages. Beer mostly from barley, but rice, wheat, maize, oats and millet are also used in brewing. Chang is consumed through a thin bamboo straw.

Alcoholic beverages include:

Chang, a beer usually made from barley

Pinjopo, a rice wine

Ara, distilled or fermented grain alcohol

Tongba, a millet based alcoholic beverage

Ingredients

Barley has been a staple food since the fifth century AD. It is made into a flour product called tsampa which is still a staple. The flour is roasted and mixed with butter and butter tea to form a stiff dough that is eaten in small balls.

References

Citations

^ Geoffrey, Barstow (2013). "Food of Sinful Demons: A History of Vegetarianism in Tibet". UVA Library | Virgo. Retrieved 25 April 2018.

^ "Administrative Division". Tibet Facts & Figures 2007. China Internet Information Center. 24 April 2008. Retrieved 1 November 2010.

^ Tibetan Marches. André Migot. Translated from the French by Peter Fleming, p. 103. (1955). E. P. Dutton & Co. Inc. New York.

^ Mendrong, Tsering (2006). Tibetisch kochen - Gerichte und ihre Geschichte. Die Werkstatt GmbH. p. 16. ISBN 978-3-89533-520-4.

^ Tamang, Jyoti Prakash (2009). Himalayan Fermented Foods: Microbiology, Nutrition, and Ethnic Values. CRC Press. p. 9. ISBN 9781420093247.

^ Mendrong, Tsering (2006). Tibetisch kochen - Gerichte und ihre Geschichte. Die Werkstatt GmbH. p. 19. ISBN 978-3-89533-520-4.

^ a b Mendrong, Tsering (2006). Tibetisch kochen - Gerichte und ihre Geschichte. Die Werkstatt GmbH. p. 20. ISBN 978-3-89533-520-4.

^ Dreyfus, Georges B. J. (2003). The Sound of Two Hands Clapping: The Education of a Tibetan Buddhist Monk. University of California Press. p. 57. ISBN 978-0520232600.

^ Mendrong, Tsering (2006). Tibetisch kochen - Gerichte und ihre Geschichte. Die Werkstatt GmbH. p. 22. ISBN 978-3-89533-520-4.

^ a b c d e Li, Tao; Jiang, Hongying (2003). Tibetan customs. 五洲传播出版社. p. 35. ISBN 978-7-5085-0254-0.

^ a b Li, Tao; Jiang, Hongying (2003). Tibetan customs. 五洲传播出版社. p. 36. ISBN 978-7-5085-0254-0.

^ Norbu, Jamyang (30 January 2010). "Dipping a Donkey-Ear in Butter Tea". Shadow Tibet. Retrieved 3 March 2011.

^ "Thue: An Original Tibetan Treat". 18 February 2017.

^ "Khapse Recipe: How to Make Tibetan Losar Pastries". 23 December 2012. Retrieved 4 October 2016.

^ "Changkol Recipe: To Start Losar Morning off Right". 30 December 2020.

^ a b Food in Tibetan Life By Rinjing Dorfe, pp. 93, 96

^ Allen, Bryan; Allen, Silvia. "Mozzarella of the East (Cheese-making and Bai culture)" (PDF). SIL International. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 December 2017. Retrieved 4 February 2010.

^ Tibetan Marches. André Migot. Translated from the French by Peter Fleming, pp. 102-3. (1955). E. P. Dutton & Co. Inc. New York.

^ Fernandez, Felipe Armesto (2001). Civilizations: Culture, Ambition and the Transformation of Nature. Simon and Schuster. p. 265. ISBN 0-7432-1650-4.

^ Dreyer, June Teufel; Sautman, Barry (2006). Contemporary Tibet : politics, development, and society in a disputed region. Armonk, New York: Sharpe. p. 262. ISBN 0-7656-1354-9.

Sources

"Brick Tea and Tsampa" in Tibetan Marches, pp. 99–104. André Migot. Translated from the French by Peter Fleming, p. 101. (1955). E. P. Dutton & Co. Inc. New York.

Bruno J. Richtsfeld: Tee und Teekultur in Tibet. In: Markus Mergenthaler (Hg.): TeeWege. Historie/Kultur/Genuss. Dettelbach 2013, S. 28–77, ISBN 9783897544376

Tsering Mendrong: Tibetisch kochen - Gerichte und ihre Geschichte. Die Werkstatt GmbH 2006, ISBN 978-3-89533-520-4

External links

Media related to Cuisine of Tibet at Wikimedia Commons

Timeline

List of rulers

European exploration

Historical money

Prehistory (Neolithic)

Zhangzhung

Yarlung dynasty

Empire (7th–9th century) Timeline List of emperors Lönchen Relations with Tang (618–907)

Timeline

List of emperors

Lönchen

Relations with Tang (618–907)

Era of Fragmentation (9th–13th century) Guge kingdom Tsongkha Relations with Song (960–1279)

Guge kingdom

Tsongkha

Relations with Song (960–1279)

Yuan dynasty rule (1270–1350) Bureau of Buddhist and Tibetan Affairs

Bureau of Buddhist and Tibetan Affairs

Phagmodrupa dynasty Relations with Ming (1368–1644)

Relations with Ming (1368–1644)

Rinpungpa dynasty

Tsangpa dynasty

Ganden Phodrang Kashag

Kashag

Khoshut Khanate

Dzungar rule (1717–1720)

Qing dynasty rule (1720–1912) Lifan Yuan List of Qing ambans

Lifan Yuan

List of Qing ambans

Post-Qing to 1950

Republic of China (ROC) claim (1912–)

People's Republic of China (PRC) rule PRC annexation Tibet Area (1951–1965) Tibet Autonomous Region (1965-) political leaders

PRC annexation

Tibet Area (1951–1965)

Tibet Autonomous Region (1965-)

political leaders

Tibetan attack on Songzhou

Battle of Chabuheluo

Battle of Dafei River

Gaozong campaign of Tibet

Battle of Shenchuan

Mongol invasions of Tibet

Battle of the Bloody Hills (1637)

Tibet–Ladakh–Mughal war

Battle of Dartsedo

Dzungar conquest of Tibet Battle of the Salween River

Battle of the Salween River

Chinese expedition to Tibet (1720)

Jinchuan campaigns

Lhasa riot of 1750

Sino-Nepalese War

Dogra–Tibetan War

Nepal–Tibet War (1855–1856)

Sikkim expedition

British expedition to Tibet

Batang uprising

Chinese expedition to Tibet (1910)

Xinhai Lhasa turmoil

Sino-Tibetan War Qinghai–Tibet War

Qinghai–Tibet War

1938–1939 German expedition to Tibet

1939 Japanese expedition to Tibet

Battle of Chamdo

Protests and uprisings since 1950 1959 Tibetan uprising 1987–1989 Tibetan unrest 2008 Tibetan unrest Self-immolation protests by Tibetans in China

1959 Tibetan uprising

1987–1989 Tibetan unrest

2008 Tibetan unrest

Self-immolation protests by Tibetans in China

Special Frontier Force

Treaty of Tingmosgang (1684)

13-Article Ordinance for the More Effective Governing of Tibet (1751)

29-Article Ordinance for the More Effective Governing of Tibet (1793)

Treaty of Chushul (1842)

Treaty of Thapathali (1856)

Convention of Calcutta (1890)

Treaty of Lhasa (1904)

Convention Between Great Britain and China Respecting Tibet (1906)

Anglo-Russian Convention (1907)

Treaty of friendship and alliance with Mongolia (1913)

Simla Accord (1914)

Seventeen Point Agreement (1951)

Sino-Indian Trade Agreement over Tibetan Border (1954)

70,000 Character Petition (1962)

Memorandum on Genuine Autonomy (2008)

Environment

Mountains Kailash Lhotse / Changtse Namcha Barwa Tanggula

Kailash

Lhotse / Changtse

Namcha Barwa

Tanggula

Rivers Yarlung Tsangpo Grand Canyon

Yarlung Tsangpo Grand Canyon

Grand Canyon

Rongbuk Glacier

Tibetan Plateau Changtang Nature Reserve

Changtang Nature Reserve

Nature Reserve

Valleys

Ü-Tsang Ngari

Tibet Autonomous Region CCP Committee People's Congress People's Government

CCP Committee

People's Congress

People's Government

Foreign relations with India CIA Tibetan program

with India

CIA Tibetan program

Golden Urn

Patron and priest relationship

Serfdom controversy Serfs' Emancipation Day

Serfs' Emancipation Day

Sovereignty debate

Central Tibetan Administration Emblem Flag

Emblem

Tibet Area, ROC Mongolian and Tibetan Affairs Commission (Disbanded)

Mongolian and Tibetan Affairs Commission (Disbanded)

Postage and postal history

Qinghai-Tibet Highway

Qinghai–Tibet railway

Trans-Himalayan Multi-dimensional Connectivity Network

Medog Hydropower Station

Education

Languages

Religion Bon Tibetan Buddhism Sakya Imperial Preceptor Dpon-chen Nyingma Kagyu Jonang Gelug Ganden Tripa Dalai Lama list Lhamo La-tso Panchen Lama list Catholicism Islam

Tibetan Buddhism Sakya Imperial Preceptor Dpon-chen Nyingma Kagyu Jonang Gelug Ganden Tripa Dalai Lama list Lhamo La-tso Panchen Lama list

Sakya Imperial Preceptor Dpon-chen

Imperial Preceptor

Dpon-chen

Nyingma

Jonang

Gelug Ganden Tripa Dalai Lama list Lhamo La-tso Panchen Lama list

Ganden Tripa

Dalai Lama list

Lhamo La-tso

Panchen Lama list

Catholicism

Human rights Chinese settlements Cultural repression Labour camps Sinicization

Chinese settlements

Cultural repression

Labour camps

Sinicization

Social classes

Tibetan people Changpa Yolmo Diaspora Names

Changpa

Diaspora

Art rugs thangka tsakli sand mandala wall paintings wall murals

thangka

tsakli

sand mandala

wall paintings

wall murals

Calendar

Cuisine

Dzong architecture

Etymology

Festivals

Historical and cultural sites

Khata (ceremonial scarf)

Literature Annals Chronicle writers

Annals

Chronicle

writers

Tibetology

Traditional medicine

Outline

Category

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

United States

France

BnF data

Israel

Yale LUX

# Uyghur cuisine


The cuisine of the Uyghur people, a Turkic ethnic group primarily inhabiting Xinjiang, China, is characterized by ingredients such as roasted mutton and beef, as well as kebab and rice dishes. Traditionally, specific dishes like polo are eaten with one's bare hands instead of with utensils like spoons, forks or chopsticks. Signature dishes include polo, laghman and nan. Because the majority of Uyghur people are Muslim, the food is predominantly halal.

History

Jahriyya revolt

Panthay Rebellion (1856–1873)

First Dungan Revolt (1862–1877)

Second Dungan Revolt (1895–1896)

Afaqi Khoja revolts

1912–present

Second Sino-Japanese War

Concerns and controversies at the 2022 Winter Olympics

Islamophobia

Migration to Xinjiang

Persecution of Uyghurs in China

Xinjiang internment camps

Afaq Khoja

Du Wenxiu

Hu Dahai

Hu Songshan

Kasim Tuet

Liu Zhi

Ma Anliang

Ma Bufang

Ma Buqing

Ma Fuxiang

Ma Gui

Ma Hualong

Ma Laichi

Ma Mingxin

Ma Qixi

Ma Wanfu

Ma Yize

Ma Zhu

Shams al-Din

Su fei-erh

Yeheidie'erding

Yusuf Ma Dexin

Wang Daiyu

Zhang Chengzhi

Zheng He

Architecture

Cuisine (Uyghur)

Han Kitab

Mosques

Shrines

Sini script

Sufi orders

Uyghurs

Uyghur Arabic

Xiao'erjing

Islamic Association of China

Cities

Regions

Hong Kong

Kashgar

Linxia

Ningxia

Sichuan

Xinjiang

Xunhua

Ahmadis

Bonans

Dongxiang

Ili Turks

Kazakhs

Kyrgyz

Tajiks

Tatars

Tibetans

Utsuls

Uyghurs

Uzbeks

Around the 4th century, the majority of Uyghurs led a nomadic lifestyle and therefore relied on livestock for food. Aside from their meat, dairy products made from their milk became a staple for many families. Especially horse milk was widely used and consumed as horses were also held for transportation purposes. Many of the practices of this nomadic diet can still be observed in the descendants of Uyghurs who immigrated from the Mongolian Plateau to the Gansu Province. Scholars note that Uyghur cuisine developed through Silk Road exchanges, combining Turkic, Persian, and Central Asian influences.[citation needed]

After the Uyghurs accepted Islam as their state religion in the 1060s, many adopted a halal diet. By this time, they had shifted to an agricultural lifestyle. The area around Hotan was regarded as especially fertile and yielded a large variety of fruits, which led to the gradual settlement of people throughout the region. With this change, the food sources were diversified and flour-based dishes, mutton, and vegetables became integral to the cuisine. The Compendium of the Languages of the Turks from 1074, for example, lists a total of 14 types of bread made from wheat flour and we know from its descriptions that noodles, rice, millet, chöchüre (Uyghur: چۆچۈرە; a kind of dumpling soup), and sausages made from grains and meat were also commonly eaten. Many traditional Uyghur cooking methods also date back to around this time of the Karakhan Empire.

Since the Tarim Basin was located along the Silk Road, Uyghur cuisine has been influenced by various Chinese foods, seasonings, and cooking methods, such as stir-frying, which were introduced from the east after the Tang dynasty. In recent years, Russian cuisine has spread to Uyghurs from countries like the Kyrgyz Republic, which was once part of the Soviet Union. In addition, some people around Turfan have started practicing Buddhism, making vegetarian dishes more prevalent in this region.[citation needed]

In 2023, the Kashgar public security bureau stated, "Muslim halal customs create an unbridgeable gap between Uyghur and Han people and widen the distance between them as would an invisible wall."

Characteristics

Uyghur cuisine is centered around bringing out the natural flavors of the individual ingredients used in a dish. Meals usually consist of a mix of meat and seasonal vegetables, served alongside rice, handmade noodles, or nan. While mutton and beef are the most commonly used meats, chicken and goose are also served often, and sometimes even pigeon is eaten. Onions, carrots, potatoes, tomatoes, peppers, Chinese cabbage, and eggplant are frequently utilized in cooking.

Typical spices include salt, black pepper, cumin seeds, and red pepper flakes. Red pepper flakes are used to make laza (Лаза), a chili sauce made with garlic and hot oil and commonly served with läghmän or benschä, Uyghur-style dumplings. Animal fats and butter are also used to flavor dishes.

Unlike many Asian ethnic groups, Uyghur people are typically not lactose-intolerant and dairy products such as kumis (Uyghur: قىمىز; a horse milk drink), ayran, and yogurt are therefore consumed frequently.

As the majority of Uyghur people are Muslim, their food shares similarities to that of other Muslim peoples in Asia, such as Uzbeks, Kazakhs, and Turks. Similarly, many Uyghur dishes can also be found among other ethnic groups in Central Asia. A traditional Uyghur-style breakfast might consist of nan and milk tea, which might be topped with jams or honey and eaten with raisins, walnuts, and other nuts.

Guests are greeted with tea, nan, pastries, and fruits before the main dishes are ready.[citation needed]

Dishes

Main course

A common Uyghur dish is läghmän (Uyghur: لەڭمەن, ләғмән; Chinese: 手拉麵; pinyin: shǒu lāmiàn), boiled hand-pulled noodles made with wheat flour and eaten with säy, a stir-fried topping usually made with mutton, onions, peppers, tomatoes, and other seasonal vegetables. The dish was most likely derived from the Chinese lamian and adapted to create a distinctively Uyghur flavor. Naren chöp (Uyghur: چۆپ نارىن) is a different noodle dish that is topped with a thin sauce of lamb, onions, and carrot and seasoned with a large amount of black or white pepper.

Another typical Uyghur dish is polo (Uyghur: پولۇ, полу; Chinese: 抓飯; pinyin: zhuāfàn), a variation of pilaf, a dish that can be found throughout Central Asia. It is made by frying mutton or chicken, onions, and thinly sliced carrots in oil before adding rice and water and steaming it. Raisins and dried apricots may also be added. While it is traditionally made in a cast-iron pan, nowadays it is often transferred to a rice cooker for steaming. To balance out the oiliness of the polo, it is commonly served with salad or cold vermicelli noodles with raw vegetables (pintoza ham säy; lit. 'vermicelli noodles and raw vegetables'). A simple dish of steamed white rice with stir-fried vegetables is called gangpen (Uyghur: گاڭپەن; Chinese: 干飯; pinyin: gānfàn).

There are also many varieties of soups, the most popular ones being shorpa (Uyghur: شورپا, Шорпа; Chinese: 羊汤; pinyin: yáng tāng), a lamb soup, and suykash (Uyghur: سۇيۇقئاش, lit. 'liquid food'), a type of soup made with noodles, meat, and vegetables such as potatoes and turnips. A special kind of suykash is tashlap suykash (lit. 'thrown liquid food', which contains handmade noodles that are pulled and then ripped into small, thumb-size pieces and thrown into the boiling soup. There are also stews like yapma (Uyghur: ياپمانان), which is made with lamb or beef, onions, potatoes, carrots, and tomatoes.

Like in many East and Southeast Asian countries, congee is also eaten by the Uyghur people, which is called shoyla (Uyghur: شويلا) in Uyghur. Aside from congee, there is also umaq, corn porridge made with corn flour, onion, turnips, and tomatoes and seasoned with salt.

A dish that has been adapted from Chinese and Russian cuisine is manta ((Uyghur: مانتا), a steamed dumpling filled with meat and Chinese cabbage or spinach. There are many varieties of this dish: pitir-manta (Uyghur: پەتىل مانتا), which features a thinner wrapper and may also contain zucchini or pumpkin; boluq manta (Uyghur: بولۇق مانتا), which uses a significantly thicker, yeasted dough; benschä, a smaller version that is boiled in water instead of steamed; and chöchüre, which are shaped like tortellini and are served in a tomato-based soup broth.

Meat is a main ingredient in many Uyghur dishes. The most well-known meat dish are kawaplar (Uyghur: كاۋاپلار, каваплар), which are kebabs made from lamb or beef and seasoned with salt, black pepper, chili powder, and cumin and directly eaten off the skewer. While usually made on a grill and sold in food stalls on the road, there are also tunur kawap (Chinese: 饢坑肉; pinyin: náng kēng ròu), which are made in a tunur clay oven.

A dish that gained popularity in the mid to late 1990s is dapanji (Uyghur: دَاپًا کِ; Chinese: 大盤雞; pinyin: dàpánjī) or chong texse toxu qorumis (Uyghur: чоң тәхсә тоху қорумиси, lit. 'big plate chicken'), a Chinese-Uyghur fusion dish. A spicy, hot chicken stew is served on a big plate and after the chicken has been eaten, flat, hand-pulled noodles are added to the remaining sauce. The dish was invented in Shawan, Northern Xinjiang by a migrant from Sichuan who mixed hot chili peppers with chicken and potatoes in an attempt to reproduce a Sichuan taste.

Nan (Uyghur: نان, нан; Chinese: 饢; pinyin: náng) is one of the oldest components of Uyghur cuisine and an integral part of the diet. While it is often mistaken as a specific type of bread, it is merely a generic term. The most common style of nan is hemek nan, a baked flatbread with a thicker crust made with wheat flour, salt, water, and vegetable oil and optionally topped with sesame or black cumin seeds. Another popular type of bread is girde (Гирде), which is a thick, bagel-shaped bread with a hard and crispy crust that resembles bialy. Toqatch nan (Uyghur: توقاچ نان), which is baked in a deep clay oven called a tunur (Uyghur: تونۇر), is also a staple in many households.

There are also steamed breads such as yutaza (Uyghur: يۇتازا, йутаза; Chinese: 油塔子; pinyin: yóutiáozi), which is a multi-layered type of bread made with animal fat. A style of yeasted fried bread called peushkel (Uyghur: پۆشكەل) is typically eaten with soups and stews. A multi-layered, thin, pan-fried bread called qatlima (Uyghur: قاتلىما) is usually prepared using leftover dough from other dishes.

Aside from nan, there are also many types of filled bread such as samsa (Uyghur: سامسا, Самса; Chinese: 烤包子; pinyin: kǎo bāozi), which are hand-held lamb pies roasted in a tunur. A flat, pan-grilled variety with a similar filling is called göshnan (Uyghur: گۆشنان, Гөшнан; Chinese: 饢包肉; pinyin: náng bāo ròu). Aside from lamb, baked pamirdin pies also stuffed with onions and carrots. Sambusa (Uyghur: سامبۇسا) are fried Uyghur empanada filled with meat, rice, and carrots.

Desserts

The most common flavors in Uyghur desserts are honey, nuts, raisins, and sultanas. Bakkali (Uyghur: باققالى), a light and moist nut cake made with honey and walnuts, is a popular traditional dessert. Aside from walnuts, other types of nuts or raisins may be used as well. Soft cookies called pichene (Uyghur: پېچىنە), which are made with plain, sweet dough, cut into shapes, and brushed with egg yolks, are commonly eaten with tea.

There is also a large scope of fried desserts. Eshme quymaq (Uyghur: ئەشمە قۇيماق) or maxar (Uyghur: ماخار; Chinese: 麻花児; pinyin: máhuār) are twisted doughnuts, which are widely sold by street vendors. They are often made from two separate doughs: one sweetened with honey and the other with sugar. The honey dough takes on a deeper color while frying, giving the doughnuts a dual-colored appearance. Another street snack is matang, a thick and chewy bar consisting of various nuts held together by a sugar syrup that is usually sold by the slice.

A holiday specialty is sangza (Uyghur: ساڭزا, Саңза; Chinese: 馓子; pinyin: sǎnzi), a snack made by pulling a dough made of wheat flour into thin ropes and deep frying them. The crispy ropes are then twisted around each other and piled high on top of each other.

Halva (Uyghur: ھالۋا) is a sweet porridge made with corn flour and cooked with chopped onions, turnips, and tomatoes. It is also often eaten during sickness as the sweet stickiness of the porridge coats the throat and alleviates soreness.

A sweet version of manta called sheker manta (Uyghur: شېكەر مانتا, lit. 'sugar manta') is often given as a treat to children. They are stuffed with walnuts and honey or brown sugar, the latter of which melts during steaming, soaking the inside of the dumpling in a thick, sweet syrup.

Fruits are also an important component of the Uyghur diet and are eaten as snacks with or in-between meals. Commonly eaten fruits include grapes, apples, watermelons, apricots, and figs.

Beverages

In Uyghur custom, tea (chay, Uyghur: چاي) is drunk multiple times throughout the day and at least with every meal. Tea is held in high regard as it is believed to have therapeutic properties and to help cure illnesses and is often hailed as a universal medicine (chay dora, Uyghur: چاي دورا, lit. 'tea medicine') by Uyghurs. It also plays an important role in many ceremonies and is seen as an indispensable part of good customer service and for successful business negotiations. Other medicinal teas made from herbs and processed plants such as cinnamon, cloves, cumin, black pepper, and ginger are also believed to help with stomach aches and digestive issues, as well as promote blood circulation, heat retention in the body, and alertness.

While green tea is more popular with the Han Chinese, Uyghurs prefer black tea (qara chai, Uyghur: قارا چاي), which is often drunk with milk to make süt chay (Uyghur: شۈت چاي, lit. 'milk tea'). Other commonly consumed teas include red tea (xish chay, Uyghur: خىش چاي) and etken chay (Uyghur: ئەتكەنچاي, әткәнчай). Etken chay is a type of milk tea that has travelled from India to China via the Silk Road. It is made by boiling an equal amount of black tea and milk together and adding salt. Sometimes, butter, sour cream, or various spices are added. The tea is typically served with cake and in a bowl, although typically tea cups are used for other types of tea. The tea may have sesame seeds sprinkled on top.

Milk-based drinks are popular as well. Raxap (Uyghur: راخاپ) is a type of drinkable yogurt, whereas doghap (Uyghur: دوغاپ) is a chilled version of a similar drink. Ayran (Uyghur: ئايران), a salty yogurt-based drink that is especially popular in Turkey, can also be found in Uyghur communities. A slightly alcoholic variation is kumis (Uyghur: قىمىز), which is made from fermented horse milk and dates all the way back to the 11th century, where it was first mentioned in the Dīwān Lughāt al-Turk.

Due to the warm climate in Xinjiang, the area is highly suited for fermentation, which popularized alcoholic beverages in the area. The most popular beer brands are Wusu, a subsidiary label of the Carlsberg Group which is produced in Xinjiang and is known for having a higher alcohol content than regular Chinese beers, and Sinkiang Black Beer, a nutty black beer made to complement the typical flavors found in Uyghur dishes.

Since Xinjiang is known for its grapes and vineyards, wine is also one of its strongest products. Especially Turfan has been an important part of the local economy and has been well known for its wine since the Tang dynasty. Their medicinal liquor called museles (Uyghur: مۇسەللەش) is made from pickling sliced deer antler, saffron, cardamom, and other spices in wine, infusing it with said flavors. The wine is produced commercially and is also exported outside of the region. Another variety of fruit wine is called sharap (Uyghur: شاراپ).

Kvass (Uyghur: كۇۋاس, квас), a slightly carbonated low-alcohol soft drink made of cereal is consumed by Uyghurs as well. It may be flavored with berries, fruits, herbs, or honey.

Influence

Uyghur restaurants can be found in most mid-sized to large cities across China and is a popular ethnic cuisine there. Uyghur shops often sell nan at the counter, which is often bought by Han Chinese people for breakfast. Another popular dish is kawaplar, which is widely available at food stalls in many places. Uyghur restaurants in China are usually qingzhen (Chinese: 清真; pinyin: qīngzhēn) certified, which is another term for halal.

Through franchising, Uyghur cuisine has also found its way outside of China. The Old Mandarin Islamic Restaurant in San Francisco opened in 1997. In April 2015, the restaurant chain Herembağ (Uyghur: ھەرەمباغ, Һәрәмбағ; Chinese: 海爾巴格; pinyin: Hǎi'ěr bā gé) opened its first store in San Francisco in the United States and later expanded with ten more locations within North America. Other popular franchises that service Uyghur food include Yershari, Loulan, Tarhar, and Ali Jiang.

In Japan, Uyghur cuisine is available at specialty restaurants in Sakura-ku, Saitama, Saitama Prefecture, and Shinjuku, Tokyo. In its September 2010 issue, the outdoor magazine BE-PAL described läghmän as using pork instead of mutton and subsequently had to issue an apology for their mistake in November 2010.

See also

Central Asian cuisine

Chinese Islamic cuisine

References

^ "Xinjiang Cuisine". All-China Women's Federation. 10 April 2006. Archived from the original on 1 September 2009. Retrieved 24 November 2010.

^ Title: Eurasian Crossroads: A History of Xinjiang Author: James A. Millward Year: 2007 Publisher: Columbia University Press

^ Ahmeti Sulayman Kutluk; Elkhen Idilis (2009). 喀喇汗王朝時期維吾尔族的飲食文化 [The Culinary Culture of the Uyghurs during the Karakhan Dynasty]. Xinjiang University Journal: Philosophy, Humanities and Social Sciences (in Chinese) (6): 60–63.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Ayixiamuguli Ayoufu; Degang Yang; Dilshat Yimit (2017). "Uyghur food culture". Asia Pacific Journal of Clinical Nutrition. 26 (5): 764–768. doi:10.6133/apjcn.042016.12. PMID 28802283.

^ Grose, Timothy (13 May 2024). "Beijing's Culinary Crusade: Erasing Uyghur Identity through Food". ChinaFile. Asia Society. Retrieved 14 May 2024.

^ G. Randall McNamara (2022). "Uyghur Cuisine and Identity: An Historical Overview of a Discreet Diaspora". Dublin Gastronomy Symposium: 189–194. doi:10.21427/fcec-7k92. Retrieved 20 March 2023.

^ a b c M. Cristina Cesàro (2007). "Chapter 10. Polo, läghmän, So Säy: Situating Uyghur Food Between Central Asia and China". Situating the Uyghurs Between China and Central Asia. Aldershot, Hampshire: Ashgate Publishing, Ltd. pp. 190–192. ISBN 978-0-7546-7041-4. Retrieved 30 July 2010.

^ Rachel Harris (2004). "Chapter One: Sibe History and Society". Singing the Village: Music, Memory and Ritual Among the Sibe of Xinjiang. New York: Oxford University Press, Inc. p. 45. ISBN 978-0-19-726297-9. Retrieved 19 March 2023.

^ M. Cristina Cesàro (2007). "Chapter 10. Polo, läghmän, So Säy: Situating Uyghur Food Between Central Asia and China". Situating the Uyghurs Between China and Central Asia. Aldershot, Hampshire: Ashgate Publishing, Ltd. pp. 192–193. ISBN 978-0-7546-7041-4. Retrieved 30 July 2010.

^ Q. Edward Wang (2015). "Chapter 3. Dish, rice or noodle? The changing use of chopsticks". Chopsticks: A Cultural and Culinary History. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. p. 55. ISBN 978-1-316-19436-2.

^ Mongolia & Inner Asia Studies Unit, University of Cambridge; Brill Academic Publishers (2000). Inner Asia. Vol. 2. The White Horse Press. p. 235.

^ M. Cristina Cesàro (2007). "Chapter 10. Polo, läghmän, So Säy: Situating Uyghur Food Between Central Asia and China". Situating the Uyghurs Between China and Central Asia. Aldershot, Hampshire: Ashgate Publishing, Ltd. pp. 197–198. ISBN 978-0-7546-7041-4. Retrieved 30 July 2010.

^ Fiona Reilly (30 October 2019). "Dispatches From the Silk Road: The Must-Try Uyghur Food of Kashgar". Serious Eats. Retrieved 20 March 2023.

^ a b James B. Minahan (2010). The Complete Guide to National Symbols and Emblems [2 volumes]. Santa Barbara, California: Greenwood Press. p. 45. ISBN 978-0-313-34496-1. Retrieved 17 May 2021.

^ Eddie Lin (15 May 2013). "This is Food from the Edge of China: Uyghur Cuisine at Silk Road Garden in Rowland Heights". Los Angeles. Archived from the original on 17 May 2021. Retrieved 17 May 2021.

^ Josh Summers (20 March 2016). "Top 10 Uyghur Foods to Eat in Xinjiang". Far West China. Retrieved 20 March 2023.

^ a b c M. Cristina Cesàro (2000). "Consuming Identities: Food and Resistance among the Uyghur in Contemporary Xinjiang". Inner Asia. Special Issue: Xinjiang. Vol. 2. Cambridge: The White Horse Press. pp. 225–238. JSTOR 23615558. Retrieved 20 March 2023. {{cite book}}: |journal= ignored (help)

^ Victoria White (20 April 2015). "Carlsberg takes full ownership of Wusu Beer Group". New Food Magazine. Retrieved 22 March 2023.

^ Kathy Vitale (25 July 2017). "18 drinks China can't live without". CNN Travel. CNN. Retrieved 24 November 2010.

^ Abdurishid Yakup (2005). The Turfan Dialect of Uyghur. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz Verlag. pp. 160–162. ISBN 978-3-447-05233-7. Retrieved 22 March 2023.

^ AFP (4 June 2015). "Grapes of Wrath: Muslim wine ferments divisions in China". The Express Tribune. Retrieved 24 November 2010.

^ "The History Of San Francisco's Chinatown In 10 Dishes". Food Republic. 10 June 2015. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Darren Byler (31 October 2015). "The Uyghur Restaurant Chain Herembağ comes to America". The Art of Life in Chinese Central Asia. Retrieved 19 March 2023.

^ "Untitled". BE-PAL (in Japanese). No. 353. Shogakukan. 1 September 2010. pp. 148–150.

^ "Untitled". BE-PAL (in Japanese). No. 356. Shogakukan. 1 November 2010. pp. 148–150.

Tianshan District

Saybag District

Xinshi District

Shuimogou District

Toutunhe District

Dabancheng District

Midong District

Ürümqi County

Karamay District

Dushanzi District

Baijiantan District

Orku District

Gaochang District

Toksun County

Shanshan County

Yizhou District

Yiwu County

Barkol Kazakh County

Yining city

Korgas city

Kuytun city

Yining County

Huocheng County

Gongliu County

Xinyuan County

Zhaosu County

Tekes County

Nilka County

Qapqal Xibe County

Tacheng city

Usu city

Shawan city

Emin County

Yumin County

Toli County

Hoboksar Mongol County

Altay city

Qinghe County

Jeminay County

Fuyun County

Burqin County

Fuhai County

Habahe County

Aksu city

Kuqa city

Onsu County

Xayar County

Baicheng County

Awat County

Kalpin County

Xinhe County

Wushi County

Kashgar / Kashi city

Maralbexi / Bachu County

Poskam / Zepu County

Payzawat / Jiashi

Kargilik / Yecheng County

Yopurga / Yuepuhu County

Yengixahar / Shule County

Makit / Maigaiti County

Yengisar / Yingjisha County

Yarkant / Shache County

Konaxahar / Shufu County

Taxkorgan Tajik County

Hotan city

Hotan County

Lop / Luopu County

Niya / Minfeng County

Gumar / Pishan County

Qira / Cele County

Keriya / Yutian County

Karakax / Moyu County

He'an County

Hekang County

Changji city

Fukang city

Qitai County

Manas County

Jimsar County

Hutubi County

Mori County

Bole city

Alashankou city

Jinghe County

Wenquan County

Korla city

Hejing County

Yuli County

Hoxud County

Qiemo County

Bohu County

Luntai County

Ruoqiang County

Yanqi County

Artush city

Akqi County

Ulugqat County

Akto County

Aral city

Baiyang city

Beitun city

Huyanghe city

Kokdala city

Kunyu city

Shihezi city

Shuanghe city

Tiemenguan city

Tumxuk city

Wujiaqu city

Xinxing city

1 Tacheng and Altay are prefectures within and under the administration of the Ili Prefecture.

Tocharians

Western Regions Loulan Shule Yuezhi Kucha Karasahr Xiongnu Gaochang Khotan

Loulan

Yuezhi

Karasahr

Xiongnu

Gaochang

Khotan

Protectorate of the Western Regions

Chief Official of the Western Regions

Kingdom of Khotan

Sixteen Kingdoms

Gaochang

Göktürks First Western Eastern Second

Western

Eastern

Second

Protectorate General to Pacify the West Four Garrisons of Anxi

Four Garrisons of Anxi

Beiting Protectorate

Tibetan Empire

Uyghur Khaganate

Kara-Khanid Khanate Turkic settlement of the Tarim Basin

Turkic settlement of the Tarim Basin

Qara Khitai

Mongol Empire

* Chagatai Khanate

Moghulistan

Kara Del

Turpan Khanate

Yarkent Khanate

Dzungar Khanate Dzungar conquest of Altishahr Dzungar–Qing Wars Dzungar genocide

Dzungar conquest of Altishahr

Dzungar–Qing Wars

Dzungar genocide

Kumul Khanate

Qing rule Revolt of the Altishahr Khojas Afaqi Khoja revolts Holy War of the Seven Khojas General of Ili

Revolt of the Altishahr Khojas

Afaqi Khoja revolts Holy War of the Seven Khojas

Holy War of the Seven Khojas

General of Ili

Reconquest of Xinjiang

Xinjiang Wars

First East Turkestan Republic

Second East Turkestan Republic Ili Rebellion

Ili Rebellion

PRC incorporation

Xinjiang Province, People's Republic of China

Yi–Ta incident

Strike Hard Campaign Against Violent Terrorism

Altai Mountains

Junggar Basin Dzungaria

Dzungaria

Tian Shan

Tarim Basin Taklamakan Desert

Taklamakan Desert

Kunlun Mountains

Cities

Gurbantünggüt Desert

Kumtag Desert

Turpan Depression

Karakoram Mountains

Pamir Mountains

Hexi Corridor

Lanzhou–Xinjiang railway

Lanzhou–Xinjiang high-speed railway

Southern Xinjiang railway

Northern Xinjiang railway

Jinghe–Yining–Khorgos railway

Kuytun–Beitun railway

Ürümqi–Dzungaria railway

Hami–Lop Nur railway

Kashgar–Hotan railway

China Railway Ürümqi Group

Xinjiang University

Xinjiang Agricultural University

Xinjiang Medical University

Xinjiang University of Finance and Economics

Xinjiang Astronomical Observatory

Doppa Day

Meshrep gathering

Tocharian clothing

Dapanji

Sangza

Youtazi

Pamirdin

Tunurkawab

Chinese Islamic cuisine

Silk Road

China Western Development

Cotton industry National Cotton and Cotton Yarn Trading Center

National Cotton and Cotton Yarn Trading Center

Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps

Xinjiang Free-Trade Zone

Apak Khoja and Xiang Fei Tomb

Emin Minaret Mosque

Flaming Mountains

Jiaohe ruins

Gaochang

Grand Bazaar, Ürümqi

Id Kah Mosque

Karakul Lake

Kizil Caves

Niya ruins

Uyghur people

Xinjiang conflict

Migration to Xinjiang

Altishahr

Chinese Turkestan

East Turkestan

China–Afghanistan relations

China–India relations

China–Kazakhstan relations

China–Kyrgyzstan relations

China–Pakistan relations

China–Tajikistan relations

China–Turkey relations

History of the Uyghur people

Category

Commons

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

# Yunnan cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Yunnan cuisine, alternatively known as Dian cuisine, is an amalgam of the cuisines of the Han Chinese and other ethnic minority groups in Yunnan Province in southwestern China. As the province with the largest number of ethnic minority groups, Yunnan cuisine is vastly varied, and it is difficult to make generalisations. Many Yunnan dishes are quite spicy, and mushrooms are featured prominently. Flowers, ferns, algae and insects may also be eaten. The cuisine of Yunnan is often compared to the cuisine of Southeast Asia as the province borders the region and many of the ethnic minorities or related cultural groups also have a presence in Southeast Asia.

Three of the province's most famous products are the renowned Pu'er tea, which was traditionally grown in Ning'er; Xuanwei ham, which is often used to flavour stewed and braised foods in Chinese cuisine and for making the stocks and broths of many Chinese soups; and guoqiao (crossing the bridge), a rice noodle soup with chicken, pig's kidney and liver, fish and pickled pork.

Yunnan cuisine is unique in China for its cheeses like Rubing and Rushan cheese made by the Bai people. Other influences include Mongolian influence during the Yuan dynasty (i.e. Central Asian settlement in Yunnan), and the proximity and influence of India and Tibet on Yunnan. Yunnan cuisine is gaining popularity in the west. Likening the food vlogger Dianxi Xiaoge to the Chinese documentary television series A Bite of China, Xinhua said Dianxi Xiaoge could be called A Bite of Yunnan in introducing Yunnan cuisine to the world.

Notable dishes

Characteristic features

Abundant ecological raw materials

Yunnan is located in the Yunnan-Guizhou plateau, with an extended range of mountains, plains, and lakes, forming a colorful scenery and three-dimensional climate of tropical, subtropical, temperate, and cold zones. This kind of diverse physiognomy and environment are beneficial to the growth of a variety of plants and animals. Yunnan is known as the "fungus kingdom," "plant kingdom," and "animal kingdom." It is one of the regions with the most abundant edible wild fungus resources in China. There are more than 250 kinds of edible native fungus, among which common ones are bovine liver fungus, Qingtou fungus, chicken fir fungus, dried fungus, bamboo sun fungus, matsutake fungus and so on.

Unique cooking technique

The cooking technique is an essential factor in cooking dishes. Many dishes are unique in their varied use of cooking utensils, fire, flavors, and colors. Yunnan is known for its diversity and ethnic minorities. The ancient cooking methods of 25 ethnic minorities found in Yunnan are merging with the cooking techniques of the Han nationality, which makes Yunnan cuisine uniquely flavorsome and colorful. In the province, the Han peoples' techniques of steaming, frying, sautéeing (with starch extract), braising, quick-boiling, boiling, and stewing are melding with the methods of minority techniques of baking, grinding with mortar and pestle, heat-contact, curing, cooking on stone, preserving with salt and other cooking methods.

For example:

Bamboo rice: Adding glutinous rice into bamboo to make bamboo rice with soft and glutinous fragrance.

Pineapple rice: Pineapple purple rice made with hollowed pineapple with fragrant pineapple flavor.

Steamed chicken: Steamed chicken made with Jianshui purple pottery special steam cooker with original flavor.

See also

List of Chinese dishes

List of edible insects by country

References

^ Anderson, E. N. (1988). The Food of China (illustrated, reprint, revised ed.). Yale University Press. pp. 91, 178, 207. ISBN 0300047398. Retrieved 24 April 2014.

^ Conrad, Jennifer (22 August 2017). "China's Yunnan Cuisine Is About to Sweep the U.S." Vogue. Retrieved 28 August 2017.

^ 刘钟灵 (2020-07-20). 刘新; 谢艳 (eds.). "阿木爷爷、李子柒、滇西小哥……他们这样把中国文化"安利"给世界" [Grandpa Amu, Li Ziqi, and Dianxi Xiaoge... They promote Chinese culture to the world in this way] (in Chinese). Xinhua News Agency. Archived from the original on 2021-10-11. Retrieved 2021-10-11.

^ "Eating from the wild: diversity of wild edible plants used by Tibetans in Shangri-la region, Yunnan, China" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2014-08-12. Retrieved 2014-07-28.

^ chinadaily.com.cn. "Flavourful Origins trailer: nanpie".

^ Abbott; et al. (1916). The Outlook, Volume 112.

^ N. A. N. A (30 April 2016). China in World History, Third Edition. Springer. p. 213. ISBN 9781349624096.

^ Kou, Pingchia. "Yunnan | province, China". Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved 2019-12-05.

^ Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China. "云南". www.dsfp.mofcom.gov.cn. Archived from the original on 2019-11-10. Retrieved 2019-11-10.

^ Yongqiang, Li. "Ancient style of Yunnan, ethnic minority cooking techniques and dishes". www.cqvip.com. Retrieved 2019-11-10.

Adzuki bean

Bamboo

Banana flower

Barbeque

Coconut

Eggplant

Erkuai

Flowers

Crossing-the-bridge noodles

Hot pot

Jackfruit

Jidou liangfen

Granny's potato

Mi gan

Mi xian

Mushrooms

Nashi pear

Palm sugar

Pineapple rice

Pu'er tea

Steam pot chicken

Rubing

Rushan

Sichuan pepper

Shiping tofu

Spring rolls

Sweet potato

Tangerine

Xuanwei ham

Xidoufen

Zhe'ergen

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

History

Politics

Economy

Cities

Yunnan–Guizhou Plateau

Tibetan Plateau

Honghe (Red) River

Dian Lake

Fuxian Lake

Erhai Lake

Lugu Lake

Yangzong Lake

Yilong Lake

Xi River

Yuan River

Pearl River

Red River

Potatson National Park

Yunnan University

Yunnan Agricultural University

Eighteen Oddities in Yunnan

Barbecue

Pineapple rice

Erkuai

Crossing-the-bridge noodles

Hot pot

Jidou liangfen

Mi gan

Mi xian

Mushrooms

Pu'er tea

Steam pot chicken

Rubing

Rushan

Sichuan pepper

Shiping tofu

Xuanwei ham

Zhe'ergen

Old Town of Lijiang

Dali Old Town

Three Parallel Rivers

South China Karst

Category

Commons

Panlong District

Wuhua District

Guandu District

Xishan District

Chenggong District

Dongchuan District

Jinning District

Anning city

Fumin County

Yiliang County

Songming County

Shilin County

Luquan County

Xundian County

Qilin District

Zhanyi District

Malong District

Xuanwei city

Fuyuan County

Luoping County

Shizong County

Luliang County

Huize County

Hongta District

Jiangchuan District

Chengjiang city

Tonghai County

Huaning County

Yimen County

Eshan County

Xinping County

Yuanjiang County

Longyang District

Tengchong city

Shidian County

Longling County

Changning County

Zhaoyang District

Shuifu city

Ludian County

Qiaojia County

Yanjin County

Daguan County

Yongshan County

Suijiang County

Zhenxiong County

Yiliang County

Weixin County

Gucheng District

Yongsheng County

Huaping County

Yulong County

Ninglang County

Simao District

Ning'er County

Mojiang County

Jingdong County

Jinggu County

Zhenyuan County

Jiangcheng County

Menglian County

Lancang County

Ximeng County

Linxiang District

Fengqing County

Yun County

Yongde County

Zhenkang County

Shuangjiang County

Gengma County

Cangyuan County

Chuxiong city

Lufeng city

Shuangbai County

Mouding County

Nanhua County

Yao'an County

Dayao County

Yongren County

Yuanmou County

Wuding County

Mengzi city

Gejiu city

Kaiyuan city

Mile city

Lüchun County

Jianshui County

Shiping County

Luxi County

Yuanyang County

Honghe County

Jinping County

Hekou County

Pingbian County

Wenshan city

Yanshan County

Xichou County

Malipo County

Maguan County

Qiubei County

Guangnan County

Funing County

Jinghong City

Menghai County

Mengla County

Dali city

Xiangyun County

Binchuan County

Midu County

Yongping County

Yunlong County

Eryuan County

Jianchuan County

Heqing County

Yangbi County

Nanjian County

Weishan County

Mangshi city

Ruili city

Lianghe County

Yingjiang County

Longchuan County

Lushui city

Fugong County

Gongshan County

Lanping County

Shangri-La city

Dêqên County

Weixi County

United States

Israel

Yale LUX

# Hong Kong cuisine


Census

Health

Hongkongers

Hong Kong resident

Hong Kong identity card

Languages

Religion

Right of abode

Cinema

Comics

Cuisine

Public holidays

Shopping

Literature

Visual art

Economy

Education

Geography

History

Politics

Hong Kong cuisine is mainly influenced by Cantonese cuisine, European cuisines (especially British cuisine) and non-Cantonese Chinese cuisines (especially Hakka, Teochew, Hokkien and Shanghainese), as well as Japanese, Korean and Southeast Asian cuisines, due to Hong Kong's past as a British colony and a long history of being an international port of commerce. Complex combinations and international gourmet expertise have given Hong Kong the labels of "Gourmet Paradise" and "World's Fair of Food".

Background

Modern Hong Kong has a predominantly service-based economy, and restaurant businesses serve as a main economic contributor. With the fourth-densest population per square metre in the world and serving a population of 7 million, Hong Kong is host to a restaurant industry with intense competition. Due to its small geographical size, Hong Kong contains a high number of restaurants per unit area.

With Cantonese ethnicity making up 94% of the resident population, Cantonese cuisine is naturally served at home. A majority of Chinese in Hong Kong are Cantonese in addition to sizable numbers of Hakka, Teochew and Shanghainese peoples, and home dishes are Cantonese with occasional mixes of the other three types of cuisines. Rice is predominantly the main staple for home meals. Home ingredients are picked up from local grocery stores and independent produce shops, although supermarkets have become progressively more popular.

Hong Kong homes and kitchens tend to be small due to a high population density, and traditional Chinese cuisine often requires the freshest possible ingredients, so food shopping is undertaken frequently and in smaller quantities than is now usual in the West. Take-out and dining out is also very common, since people are often too busy to cook with an average 47-hour work week.

History

19th century: Colonial origins

The cuisine of Hong Kong traces its origins to its founding as a British colonial outpost in 1841. Soon after the colony was founded, many Western merchants along with Chinese emigrants from nearby Canton flocked there to conduct business. Initially, Hong Kong society consisted of expatriate upper-class Westerners, working-class Chinese coolies, farmers and fishermen, and middle class Chinese merchants. The simple peasant cuisine was rudimentary compared to the cuisine of 19th century Canton (now commonly known as Guangzhou).

As the colony developed, there arose a need for meals to entertain businessmen. Some Chinese restaurants were founded in the late 19th century and early 20th century as branches of renowned restaurants in Canton and offered elaborate meals consisting of traditional Chinese "eight main courses and eight entrees" (八大八小) types of banquets for 2 taels of silver, at the time equal to a clerk's monthly wage. Before 1935 when prostitution was still legal in Hong Kong, female escorts often accompanied diners to restaurant meals, especially those of a business entertainment nature.[citation needed] Until the Second World War, opium was also offered. For the majority of Chinese who were not part of the merchant class, dining out in restaurants was non-existent and consisted of simple Cantonese country fares. Meat only appeared in festive occasions and celebrations such as birthdays were often done by catering services who prepared the meals at the celebrant's home. The restaurant scene for Europeans in Hong Kong remained separate from Chinese dining. Elaborate Western-style restaurants existed at the likes of Hongkong Hotel and subsequently Gloucester Hotel.[citation needed]

1920s: Cantonese influence

Hong Kong's dining lagged behind the then-leader of Chinese cuisine, Guangzhou (also known as Canton), for a long time and many Hong Kong chefs spent their formative years in Canton. Canton was renowned for its food, and there was a traditional saying of "The food is in Canton" (食在廣州).[unreliable source?] Cantonese cuisine in Canton reached its peak during the 1920s and was renowned in the care in preparation even for peasant fares such as Char siu or boat congee. Dasanyuan [zh] was renowned for its braised shark fin dish that charged 60 silver yuan, equivalent to 6 months' wage for a working-class family. The Guandong cooking style eventually trickled down to the culinary scene in Hong Kong.

1949: Shanghainese and Western influences

The victory of Chinese Communists in the Chinese Civil War in 1949 created a wave of refugees into Hong Kong. A sizeable number of refugees were from non-Cantonese speaking parts of China, including the Yangtze River Delta, and introduced Shanghai cuisine to Hong Kong. On the other hand, most renowned chefs of Canton, now known as Guangzhou in pinyin romanisation, settled in Hong Kong to escape from Communist rule in mainland China.

Prostitution and opium had by then long faded from the restaurant scene, and to survive, many restaurants started to tap into profitable new markets by offering yum cha and wedding banquets, which coincided with an increasing interest in Western fare by the Chinese in Hong Kong.

Egg tarts and Hong Kong-style milk tea soon became part of Hong Kong's food culture. It could be argued that the seeds of Hong Kong society as understood today were not sown until 1949, and the cuisine of Hong Kong has its direct roots in this period.

1960s–1980s: Prosperity

By the 1960s, Hong Kong was past the worst of the economic depression, and there was a long and continuous period of relative calm and openness compared to the Communist rule in Mao Zedong-era China and martial law isolation in Taiwan. The Cantonese cuisine in Hong Kong had by then surpassed that of Guangzhou, which had witnessed a long period of decline after the Communists came to power. The rising prosperity from the mid-1960s had given birth to increasing demand for quality dining. Many of the chefs, who spent their formative years in pre-Communist Guangzhou and Shanghai, started to bring out the best of fine dining specialties from pre-1949 Guangzhou and Shanghai. Families had largely abandoned catering services and resorted to restaurants for celebratory meals. Seafood started to become specialised delicacies in the 1960s, followed by game in the 1970s.

This wave of prosperity also propelled Hong Kong Chinese's awareness of foreign food trends, and many were willing to try foreign ingredients such as asparagus and crayfish from Australia. Foreign food styles such as Japanese and Southeast Asian cuisine started to influence local food, and the pace of change accelerated during the late 1970s and early 1980s. This gave birth to nouvelle Cantonese cuisine (Chinese: 新派粵菜; Cantonese Yale: Sānpaai Yuhtchoi) that incorporated foreign dishes such as sashimi into Cantonese banquets. For the first time, many Hong Kong Chinese started to have the economic means to visit many Western restaurants of the domain of mainly wealthy expatriate Westerners such as Gaddi's of the Peninsula Hotel. During these years, there was great wealth growth from stock market investments, and one visible manifestation of the resultant nouveau riche mentality in 1970s Hong Kong were sayings such as "mixing shark fin soup with rice" (Chinese: 魚翅撈飯; Cantonese Yale: Yùhchi Lōufaahn).

1980–1990s: links with mainland China and Taiwan

China initiated the reform and opening up when Deng Xiaoping came to power after Mao Zedong died. The opening up of the country gave chefs from Hong Kong chances to reestablish links with chefs from mainland China severed in 1949 and opportunities to gain awareness of various regional Chinese cuisines. Many of these cuisines also contributed to nouvelle Cantonese cuisines in Hong Kong. The lift of martial law in Taiwan in 1987 jump-started Taiwanese links with mainland China and has caused a proliferation of eateries specialising in Taiwanese cuisine in Hong Kong as Taiwanese tourists and businessmen used Hong Kong as a midpoint for visits to mainland China. From 1978 until 1997 there was no dispute Hong Kong was the epicenter of Chinese, not only Cantonese, cuisine worldwide, with Chinese restaurants in mainland China and Taiwan, and among overseas Chinese communities, racing to employ chefs trained or worked in Hong Kong and emulating dishes improved upon or invented in Hong Kong. Hong Kong–style Cantonese cuisine (Cantonese Yale: Góngsīk Yuhtchoi) became a coinword for innovative Chinese cuisine during this period. It was even unofficially rumoured the Chinese government had secretly consulted the head chef for the Peking Garden Restaurant [zh] of Hong Kong, part of the Maxim's restaurant and catering conglomerate, to teach chefs back at the renowned Quanjude restaurant in Beijing how to make good Peking duck, Quanjude's signature dish, in the early 1980s as the skills to produce the dish were largely lost during the Cultural Revolution.[citation needed]

Post-1997

After Hong Kong was returned to China in 1997, the Asian financial crisis and SARS epidemic led to a decade-long depression. The boom in Hong Kong culinary scene came to a halt and many restaurants were shuttered, including a number of renowned eateries such as Sun Tung Lok. It is argued that the catch up in prosperity among populations from coastal regions of China, particularly the nouveau riche (derogatory Chinese: daai foon 大款) and corrupted officials (derogatory Chinese: daai ye 大爺), has driven up the demand of many delicacies such as abalone and grouper, and many celebratory dishes have become outrageously expensive that they are beyond the reach of even many upper-middle class Hong Kong families.[citation needed] At the same time, Hong Kong people's tastes have become cosmopolitan when compared with one generation ago. Many are now able to appreciate specific European cuisines rather than one generic "Western cuisine", and appreciation of other Asian cuisines, especially Japanese cuisine and Thai cuisine has been ever increasing.[citation needed] These have produced a proliferation of many specialist ethnic cuisine restaurants geared towards young middle class couples on one hand, and a consolidation of fine-dining Cantonese restaurants on the other.[citation needed]

As of the early 21st century Hong Kong, notwithstanding the partial recovery of Hong Kong's economy from the slump in 2003 due to the SARS epidemic, many pundits argue that contemporary Hong Kong's economy is heavily skewed towards real estate development and financial services. This provides prosperity to only a select few minority and an uncertain long-term economic fortune vis-a-vis more diversified mega-rich cities in China such as Shanghai and Guangzhou, and the territory therefore no longer possesses the economic base to support mass-level super fine-dining that is required to sustain an active dining culture. A common perception of Hong Kong's current culinary culture is one being in decline and resting on past laurels. For example, culinary magazines such as Eat and Travel Weekly report fewer fundamentally new dishes being invented in Hong Kong post-2000 than the 1980s heyday, and many restaurants tend to resort to popularise haute dishes invented in the 1980s.[citation needed] Modern Hong Kong's labour market has also disrupted the traditional ways of grooming Chinese chefs, which henceforth been trained in a very long and drawn one-to-one practical apprenticeships. Very few chefs are willing to sacrifice their time and effort to produce traditional cooking that discourages cutting corners, and emphasises techniques over ingredients' net economic worth. On the other hand, a minority of optimistic pundits argue Hong Kong may well develop a foodie culture similar to other developed economies and preserve the best of traditional cooking.

Historically, Hong Kong's food source came from a combination of mini stores instead of supermarkets. Some of the stores included: rice dealers (Chinese: 米舖; Cantonese Yale: Máihpou), serving as mini rice storage warehouses; wine shops (Chinese: 辦館; Cantonese Yale: Baahn gún), which offered beverages; convenient stores (Chinese: 士多; Cantonese Yale: Sidō, Cantonese rendering of "store"), which were single convenient stores, most notable for serving fresh baked bread. The main component was wet markets (Chinese: 街市; Cantonese Yale: Gāaisíh) – one of the first market gatherings in Hong Kong was Central Market that began in the 1840s.

The idea of a single facility or supermarket that provided all food ingredients did not take place until the early 1970s when Wellcome, a local grocery chain, changed its format into a supermarket. Air-conditioned supermarkets did not become standardised until the 1980s. The early 21st century Western environmentalism- or sustainability-inspired food trends, such as natural food, organic food, non-genetically modified food, local food, and farmer's markets, have been ignored by a majority of Hong Kong's populations. The Western farmer's market share some similarities with the traditional Chinese wet markets, however support of wet markets is largely based on traditional Chinese cultural preference rather than sustainability, and wet markets contain many features that are condemned by modern Western environmentalists on the grounds of "animal cruelty" (live animals sold for food) and "high food miles" (fruits and seafood from another continent).[citation needed]

Eating habits

Most restaurant serving sizes are considerably small by international standards, especially in comparison to most Western nations like the United States and Canada. The main course is usually accompanied by a generous portion of carbohydrates such as rice or mein (noodles). People generally eat 5 times a day.

Ingredients

Similar to Cantonese cuisine elsewhere, Hong Kong's cooking uses a wide variety of ingredients and the common ones include:

Century egg

Salted duck egg

Chinese cabbage

Shiitake

Gai lan

Red bean

Hoisin sauce

Chinese sausage

Dried shrimp

Dried scallop

Jujube

Lotus seed

Chinese and other Asian styles

Hawker

These are basically streetside food stalls, operated by usually one or two people pushing a cart. The carts are usually very mobile, allowing the businesses freedom to sell snacks in whichever area is most populated at a particular point in time. While they have been popular in the 1970s and 1980s, tight health regulations and other forms of lease versus licensed hawker restrictions have put a burden on this mobile food culture. The term Jau Gwei became associated with the hawkers trying to avoid restrictions.

Examples include:

Fish ball

Put chai ko (port cake or 砵仔糕)

Egg waffle

Roasted chestnuts

Cantonese cuisine

As the most predominant cultural group in Hong Kong, Cantonese food forms the backbone of home cooking and dine-out scenes. Many early celebrated Cantonese restaurants, including Tai San Yuan and Luk Yu Tea House, which were originally Hong Kong branches of the famed Guangzhou-based restaurants, and most chefs in Hong Kong until the 1970s had spent their formative years working in the restaurant industry in Guangzhou. Most of the celebrated dishes in Hong Kong were introduced into the territory through Guangzhou, often refined with awareness of international tastes. Cantonese food prices perhaps cover the widest range, from small businesses’ lou mei to the most expensive abalone delicacies.

One well-developed dish in Cantonese cuisine is dim sum. Waiters' carts carry stacks of steamer baskets or small plates of food for customers to choose from. Dim sum includes dishes based on meat, seafood, and vegetables, as well as desserts and fruit. The term yum cha (lit. 'drink tea') is synonymous with eating dim sum for Hong Kong people. It is customary for families to eat dim sum on weekends. Most foods are steamed, traditionally.

Examples of Hong Kong-style Cantonese cuisine include:

Cart noodle

Siu mei

Cha siu bao

Shaomai

Ha gow

Steamed meatball

Lo mai gai

Fun guo

Tofu skin roll

Spring roll

Rice noodle roll

Fujian fried rice

Crispy fried chicken

Seafood birdsnest

Pork knuckles and ginger stew

Hot pot

This hot pot cuisine, known as daa bin lou (Chinese: 打邊爐; Jyutping: daa2 bin1 lou4; pinyin: dǎbiānlú) in Cantonese, is unique in the sense that everyone is a chef. A boiling pot of water (soup-based, and customers can choose their preferred soup taste), is placed in the center of the table, and essentially everyone boils their own ingredients in that pot. This is highly popular and is usually accompanied with a bottle of cold beer or soda. This style is common during frigid winter times, since people are essentially huddled around a fire. This format is also considered entertaining.

Examples include:

Boiling broth

Beef, pork, chicken

Crab, prawns, and clams

Chinese cabbage, carrots and lettuce

Fish balls and beef balls

Hong Kong–style drinks

Non-alcoholic beverages are particularly associated with cha chaan teng, a unique kind of restaurant in Hong Kong. Since drink recipes are not franchise-based, most drinks can vary depending on the restaurant. Rock sugar and syrup are commonly used to add sweetness.

Some beverages that originated in the tea culture of Taiwan, such as bubble tea and honey green tea, had been brought to Hong Kong and become part of Hong Kong's beverage culture.

Examples include:

Hong Kong–style milk tea

Coffee

Yuenyeung

Red bean ice

Soy milk

Sugarcane juice

Lemon tea

Ovaltine

Milo (drink)

Horlicks

Almond milk

Black cow (黑牛)- A cup of ice-cold Coke with a scoop of ice cream floating on top

7 Up with salted limes (鹹檸七)- A glass of Sprite or 7-Up with preserved salted limes

Chinese tea

A large wide variety of tea leaves and combinations are used for Chinese tea. In the 1950s and 1960s, citizens would go to tea houses accompanied by their pet birds locked in a bird cage.[clarification needed] Noon tea was an essential break in the middle of the day. Tea nowadays goes along with any meal.

Examples include:

Chrysanthemum tea

24 flavors

Western styles

Hong Kong–style Western cuisine

Dishes derived from cuisines of the Western world, but not classified into a particular country, belong in this category. It is known in Hong Kong as sai chaan (西餐, 'Western cuisine'), and outside of Hong Kong as Hong Kong–style Western cuisine or Canto-Western cuisine. Restaurants that offer this style of cuisine are usually cha chaan teng (茶餐廳, Hong Kong-style diners) at the popular end, and sai chaan teng (西餐廳, 'Western restaurants') at the more upscale range. Restaurants that have come to expect tourists will likely offer both east and west menus. Most dishes are localised with Chinese tastes and contain Chinese and specifically Cantonese influences, such as beef tenderloin marinated in soy sauce, served in a gravy dominated by soy sauce, and with fried rice or pasta on the side.

Examples include:

Egg and beef sandwich, made from two slices of white bread, corned beef (preferred by 20th century British settlers to local, unprocessed beef) and fluffy scrambled eggs (an ingredient first added at cha chaan tengs), often made fluffy by added milk or cream, and corn starch

Egg tart

Macaroni in broth with fried egg and sausage or thinly sliced ham

Fried chicken wings, sometimes served with French fries and salad

Chinese-style beef tenderloin (zh:中式牛柳)

Lemon chicken (zh:西檸雞)

Swiss sauce chicken wings

Salad pork ribs (zh-yue:沙律骨): fried pork ribs with mayonnaise and condensed milk

Instant noodles with sausages, fried eggs, or thinly sliced ham

French toast, called sai do si (西多士, 'Western toast', shortened from 法蘭西多士, transliteration of French toast) in Chinese

Baked pork chop rice, baked with fried pork chop and fried rice, usually served with tomato sauce and cheese

Hong Kong-style borscht soup (cooked with tomatoes, but usually without beetroot or sour cream)

Hong Kong–style milk tea, a beverage made of Ceylon tea, black tea, and milk

Lemon tea (black tea with slices of fresh lemon), served hot or cold, usually with syrup

See also

Hong Kong portal

Food portal

Barbecue in Hong Kong

Cantonese cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Culture of Hong Kong

Upstairs cafés in Hong Kong

List of Chinese dishes

Private kitchen

Traditional candies in Hong Kong

Hong Kong Chefs Association

References

^ a b Sterling, Richard. Chong, Elizabeth. Qin, Lushan Charles [2001] (2001). World Food Hong Kong. Hong Kong: Lonely Planet Publishing. ISBN 1-86450-288-6.

^ Hong Kong census. "Census labour data pdf Archived 9 February 2007 at the Wayback Machine." Labor. Retrieved on 14 March 2007.

^ HK Census. "HK Census Archived 27 September 2007 at the Wayback Machine." Statistical Table of population. Retrieved on 16 March 2007.

^ HK Census. Hong Kong Census Archived 27 September 2013 at the Wayback Machine.

^ HK Census. HK Census Archived 8 December 2007 at the Wayback Machine. Statistical Table. Retrieved on 8 March 2007.

^ a b c d Steers, Richard. [1999] (1999). Made in Korea: Chung Ju Yung and the Rise of Hyundai. United Kingdom: Routledge. ISBN 0-415-92050-7

^ pg 11–12, Famous Cuisine in Hong Kong (香港名菜精選), Wan Li Publishings, Hong Kong, October 1988

^ "佛門網站 Buddhist Door - 鹿野苑". Archived from the original on 17 August 2009. Retrieved 24 September 2008.

^ pg 39–41, Special Test Editor (Chan Mun-yan) (特級校對（陳夢因）, Tèjí Jiàoduì (Chén Mèngyīn)), History of Cantonese Dishes (粵菜溯源錄), Food and Drink World Publishing Limited, Hong Kong, May 1988

^ pg 31, Special Test Editor (Chan Mun-yan) (特級校對（陳夢因）, Tèjí Jiàoduì (Chén Mèngyīn)), History of Cantonese Dishes (粵菜溯源錄), Food and Drink World Publishing Limited, Hong Kong, May 1988

^ pg 40–41, Special Test Editor (Chan Mun-yan), Ibid

^ pg 13–14, Famous Cuisine in Hong Kong (Chinese: 香港名菜精選; Cantonese Yale: Hēunggóng Sānpaai Jūngchoi Jīngwàh)

^ pg 11–13, New-Style Chinese Cooking From Hong Kong (Chinese: 香港新派中菜精華; Cantonese Yale: Hēunggóng Sānpaai Jūngchoi Jīngwàh), Wan Li Publishings, Hong Kong, October 1987

^ pg 10–11, New-Style Chinese Cooking From Hong Kong (香港新派中菜精華)

^ pg14, Famous Cuisine in Hong Kong (Chinese: 香港名菜精選; Cantonese Yale: Hēunggóng Sānpaai Jūngchoi Jīngwàh)

^ pg15, Famous Cuisine in Hong Kong (Chinese: 香港名菜精選; Cantonese Yale: Hēunggóng Mìhngchoi Jīngsyún)

^ Mau, Stephen D. [2006] (2006). Hong Kong Legal Principles: Important Topics for Students and Professionals. Hong Kong University Press. ISBN 962-209-778-2

^ "Why Are the Chinese New Year Hawkers Worth Rioting Over?". South China Morning Post. 18 February 2016. Retrieved 15 February 2026.

^ Chang, Suzana (October 2013). "The influence and cultural factors including language on business outcomes". Exporters in Asia with reference to South Korea. University of Canterbury: 118.

^ Cheuk Choi (蔡焯, Cài Chāo), pg 4, Preface to Famous Cuisine in Hong Kong (香港名菜精選, Xiānggǎng Míngcài Jīngxuǎn)

^ pg 149, World Food Hong Kong, Richard Sterling and Elizabeth Chong, Lonely Planet, Melbourne, 2002

^ The Associated Press (8 January 2007). "Explore the world of Canto-Western cuisine". NBC News. NBC Universal.

^ Groundwater, Ben (20 October 2025). "The Hong Kong dish the British left behind". Traveller. Retrieved 20 October 2025.

^ Kaur, Jasmine. "Hong Kong's Egg Tarts: A Sweet Spin-Off On English Custard Tart". Slurrp. Retrieved 22 February 2023.

^ Fok, Wilson (7 February 2023). "Baked pork chop rice: the history of a defining Hong Kong comfort food". South China Morning Post. Retrieved 22 February 2023.

^ Reinfrank, Alkira (9 November 2017). "Steeped in history: how Hong Kong-style milk tea became a staple". South China Morning Post. Retrieved 22 February 2023.

External links

Gourmet Paradise – Hong Kong Tourism Board Archived 5 December 2008 at the Wayback Machine

Outline

Index of articles

Prehistoric

Imperial China Bao'an County and Xin'an County

Bao'an County and Xin'an County

British colony

1800s–1930s WWI

Battle of Hong Kong

Japanese occupation

Liberation of Hong Kong

Handover of Hong Kong

Administrative divisions

Air pollution

Beaches

Buildings and structures

Channels

Cities and towns

Country parks and conservation

Ecology

Land reclamation

Harbours

Islands and peninsulas

Marine parks

Mountains and peaks

Public parks and gardens

Reservoirs

Rivers

Villages

National anthem

Basic Law

Chief Executive

Districts

Elections

Emblem

Foreign relations

Government

Independence

Judiciary

Legal system

Legislative Council

LGBT rights

Military

One country, two systems

Political parties

Protests

Sino-British Joint Declaration

Special administrative regions of China

Education

Fire services

Food and Health Bureau

Healthcare

Police

Companies

Dollar (currency)

Employment

Hawkers

Postal codes

Stock Exchange

Communications Telephone numbers

Telephone numbers

The Hongs

Tourism

Airlines

Airport

Cycling

Ferries

List of roads

Prostitution

Sex trafficking

Architecture

Cinema

Comics

Cheung Chau Bun Festival

Cuisine

Gambling

Graffiti

Heritage conservation

Hong Kong orchid

Honours system

Hong Kong nationalism

Languages

Lion Rock Spirit

Literature

McDull

Museums

Ngai jong

People Demographics Women Youth

Demographics

Public holidays

Religion

Shopping

Television

Visual art

Anglosphere

CJKV Sinosphere

Sinosphere

Afghanistan

Armenia

Azerbaijan

Bahrain

Bangladesh

Bhutan

Brunei

Burma (Myanmar)

Cambodia

Cyprus

East Timor (Timor-Leste)

Georgia

Indonesia

Israel

Jordan

Kazakhstan

North Korea

South Korea

Kuwait

Kyrgyzstan

Lebanon

Malaysia

Maldives

Mongolia

Pakistan

Philippines

Russia

Saudi Arabia

Singapore

Sri Lanka

Tajikistan

Thailand

Turkey

Turkmenistan

United Arab Emirates

Uzbekistan

Vietnam

Abkhazia

Northern Cyprus

Palestine

South Ossetia

Taiwan

British Indian Ocean Territory

Christmas Island

Cocos (Keeling) Islands

Hong Kong

Bao yu

Bird's nest soup

Buddha's delight

Cantonese seafood soup

Chinese steamed eggs

Congee

Crispy fried chicken

Dragon tiger phoenix

Egg foo young

Eight treasure duck

Eight treasure rice

Hot pot

Lemon chicken

Pork knuckles and ginger stew

Seafood birdsnest

Shark fin soup

Snake bite chicken

Soy sauce chicken

Steam minced pork

Subgum

Suckling pig

Sweet and sour pork

White boiled shrimp

White cut chicken

Wonton noodles

Yangzhou fried rice

Almond tofu

Beef tripe

Cha siu bao

Chicken feet

Coconut bar

Har gow

Jian dui

Jiaozi

Lo mai gai

Lotus seed bun

Nian gao

Ox-tongue pastry

Rice noodle roll

Shumai

Spring roll

Steamed meatball

Swiss wing

Taro cake

Taro dumpling

Tendon

Tofu skin roll

Turnip cake

Water chestnut cake

Yau gok

Youtiao

Zhaliang

Char siu

Chinese sausage

Lou mei

Orange cuttlefish

Roast goose

Siu mei

Siu yuk

White cut chicken

Almond biscuit

Biscuit roll

Deuk Deuk Tong

Douhua

Ginger milk curd

Lo mai chi

Malay sponge cake

Mooncake

Red bean cake

Red bean soup

Sausage bun

Snow skin mooncake

Tang bu shuai

Tong sui

White sugar sponge cake

Fermented bean curd

Five-spice powder

XO sauce

Beef ball

Black bean paste

Chenpi

Conpoy

Fermented black beans

Fish ball

Fishcake

Frog legs

Garland chrysanthemum

Kai-lan

Mantis shrimp

Ong choy

Pig blood curd

Pig's ear

Rapeseed

Saang mein

Sea cucumbers

Shahe fen

Shrimp roe noodles

Spare ribs

Suan cai

Tofu skin

Wonton

Yi mein

Youmian

Zha cai

Chinese herb tea

Dried shredded squid

Lou fo tong

Cantonese restaurant

Beijing cuisine

Shanghai cuisine

Hong Kong cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Almond biscuit

Almond jelly

Baked pork chop rice

Bakkwa

Banana roll

Bao yu

Beef ball

Beef bun

Beef chow fun

Bird's nest soup

Biscuit roll

Buddha's delight

Cart noodle

Cha siu bao

Char siu

Chinese herb tea

Chinese sausage

Cocktail bun

Coconut bar

Congee

Cream bun

Crispy fried chicken

Deuk Deuk Tong

Dim sum

Douhua

Dried shredded squid

Egg tart

Egg waffle

Fish ball

Fishcake

Flame on the iceberg

Got fan

Ham and egg bun

Haw flakes

Honey walnut shrimp

Hong Kong-style milk tea

Hot pot

Jin deui

Kai-lan

Lai fun

Lo mai chi

Mango pomelo sago

Mango pudding

Ox-tongue pastry

Paper wrapped cake

Peanut butter bun

Pineapple bun

Poon choi

Put chai ko

Rapeseed

Red bean ice

Rice noodle roll

Roast goose

Roasted pig

Rousong

Saang mein

Sausage bun

Sea cucumber

Seafood birdsnest

Shahe fen

Singapore style noodles

Siu mei

Steamed meatball

Shrimp roe noodles

Shumai

Sorrowful Rice

Stinky tofu

Sweetheart cake

Swiss wing

Tang bu shuai

Taro cake

Taro dumpling

Tea egg

Tofu skin roll

Water caltrop

Water chestnut cake

White boiled shrimp

White cut chicken

White sugar sponge cake

Wonton

Wonton noodle

XO sauce

Yeung Chow fried rice

Yi mein

Yin yang fried rice

Yuenyeung

Zha cai

Zhaliang

The Banquet (1991)

Shogun and Little Kitchen (1992)

The Chinese Feast (1995)

The God of Cookery (1996)

Osaka Wrestling Restaurant (2004)

Kung Fu Chefs (2009)

Magic Chef (2005)

Hong Kong tea culture

Siu yeh

One bowl with two pieces

Private kitchens

Yum cha

Cha chaan teng

Dai pai dong

Beijing cuisine

Cantonese cuisine

Shanghai cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Australia Dairy Company

ClubONE Riviera

Fook Lam Moon

Forum Restaurant

Heichinrou Hong Kong

Hung Fook Tong

Joy Hing's Roasted Meat

Kau Kee Restaurant

Luk Yu

Lung King Heen

Mak's Noodle

Ngan Lung Restaurant

Tai Hing

Tai Ping Koon Restaurant

Tim Ho Wan

Tsui Wah Restaurant

Wing Wah

Yung Kee

Daikiya

Sushi Shikon

81⁄2 Otto e Mezzo Bombana

Bread Street Kitchen and Bar

Bo Innovation

Caprice

Gaddi's

L'Atelier de Joël Robuchon

The Peak Lookout

Pierre

Ajisen Ramen

Café de Coral

Fairwood

Genki Sushi

Hui Lau Shan

Maxim's Caterers

Pacific Coffee

Yoshinoya

Cha chaan teng

Dai pai dong

Hawker centre

Jumbo Kingdom

Cantonese cuisine

Hong Kong cuisine

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

# Fish ball


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Fish balls are balls made from fish paste which are then boiled or deep-fried. Similar in composition to fishcake, fish balls are often made from fish mince or surimi, salt, and a culinary binder such as tapioca flour, cornstarch, or potato starch.

Fish balls are popular in East and Southeast Asia, Europe (especially Northern Europe), and some coastal countries of West Africa. In Asia they are eaten as a snack or added to soups or hotpot dishes. They are usually attributed to Chinese cuisine and the fish ball industry is largely operated by people of Chinese descent. European versions tend to be less processed, sometimes using milk or potatoes for binding. Nordic countries like Norway, Denmark and Sweden each have their own variation.

Production

There are two variants of fish balls, differing in textures, production method, and primary regions of production.

While the ingredients and methods are similar between countries, differences can be noted in terms of elasticity, colour, and flavour. Fish balls in Hong Kong and the Philippines can be firmer, darker, and have a fishier taste and stronger aroma than their Malay and Singaporean counterparts. Taiwanese fish balls have more bounce and more air incorporated to allow for soaking up soups or sauces.

Typically fish are shredded, coarsely ground, or pounded, then undergo prolonged mixing with added salt and crushed ice until a smooth texture is attained. Other ingredients are added, such as sugar, monosodium glutamate, transglutaminase, or starches, and then water is added to ensure the ball has a "soft, springy texture." This technique, similar to the process of making surimi, uncoils and stretches previously wound and tangled protein strands in the fish, which produces food with a firm "bouncy" texture. In Taiwan, the term "Q" is used to describe this ideal bouncy texture.

In commercial production, the balls are shaped by an extruding machine, and set in water between 30 and 45 C. before boiling, cooling, then packaging. The setting time is an important part of manufacture because in addition to giving the balls a translucent appearance, the shape will be maintained after packaging. They can be sold uncooked (after setting), boiled, or fried (after being boiled).

The variety of fish used in surimi can affect commercial fish ball production, due to the difference in thermal stability between tropical fish and cold-water fish. Economically, fish ball production adds value to lower-priced fish.

Europe

Scandinavian fish balls are made of completely pureed fish, milk, and potato flour (or potato starch), and they are shaped without additional processing, which produces a softer texture. This type of fish ball usually comes in metal cans or transparent plastic containers containing stock or brine and also requires a setting period prior to canning.

Shelf life

Fish balls are perishable, and have a different shelf life based on the amount of processing and the inclusion of additives. Uncooked fish balls have a shelf life of 4 to 5 days when stored at 5 °C. A fried, marinated fish ball can last up to 135 days at ±4 °C.

Mislabeling issues

While fish balls can contain other seafood or meat products (such as squid, cuttlefish, or shrimp balls), studies conducted on processed seafood have revealed significant amounts of mislabeling. A 2017 study in Italy and Spain detected mollusks used in surimi products, which is a concern for shellfish allergies. A 2013–2016 study in the Philippines that identified the genetic code of a variety of fish balls concluded that large, well-established companies generally adhered to labelling standards, but unknown, small producers typically supplying street hawkers revealed seafood balls that contained pork or chicken. A 2019 study by the National University of Singapore showed a 7.8% mislabeling rate for single-type seafood products, and 38.5% mislabeling for products containing multiple meat sources. The study also identified seafood balls containing pig DNA, although none of the samples were labeled as a halal or kosher food, which would pose a significant concern for the country's Muslim population.

Regional variations

East Asia

Fish balls have a long history in China, and the introduction of fish balls throughout Asia is often attributed to Chinese immigrants. Fish balls can also contain a wide array of seafood and other meats such as beef or pork.

In Hubei, fish balls are made from freshwater fish surimi. A Fuzhou variety (福州鱼丸) is made from fish with a minced pork filling. The variation from Fuqing is much larger. Shark is also used; about 50% of shark caught in China is used for fish ball production with a small amount used for export.

Tengxin Foods (Fujian) is one of China's largest fish ball factories, with a 30% market share.

Fish balls (魚蛋) are one of Hong Kong's most popular and representative "street foods", eaten plain or cooked in a curry sauce. Readily available in traditional markets and supermarkets, fish balls are also a popular ingredient in hot pot.

Flathead mullet (九棍魚/烏仔魚) and daggertooth pike conger (門鱔) are common fish varieties used for fish balls. Originally they were likely made by mixing and frying the remaining materials of Chaozhou fish ball (潮州白魚丸) or stale fish, although more recently they are mainly imported by wholesalers and the texture is more consistent.

There are three kinds of fish balls (魚蛋, literally "fish eggs"), sold in Hong Kong and Macau. They are yellow, white, and golden. Yellow fish balls are most commonly sold as street food. White fish balls are larger in size and made with white fish, such as Spanish mackerel, with an elastic (bouncy) and fluffy texture and a strong taste of fish. This kind is usually served to complement noodles at Cháozhōu-style noodle restaurants, and at some cha chaan tengs, which also sell beef balls (牛丸) and cuttlefish balls (墨魚丸). White fish balls from traditional fish ball restaurants are made from fresh fish and are normally hand-made (手打) by the owners using traditional techniques. Golden fish ball, also known as Cheung Chau fishball, was a snack produced in Cheung Chau. Distinguishing features included size, sauce and texture. They were served with a special curry sauce, and made from fresh fish which made the texture smoother. As of 15 August 2024 the snacks are no longer produced due to the retirement of the inventor.

During the 1970s and 1980s, "fish ball girl" became a euphemism for underage female sex workers. The 2016 Mong Kok civil unrest, which escalated from the government's crackdown on unlicensed street hawkers during the Chinese New Year holidays, has been referred to by some media outlets and social media platforms as the "Fishball Revolution" (魚蛋革命).

Milkfish balls (虱目魚丸) are frequently found in Taiwan. The natural texture and aroma of the milkfish give this variant a unique taste. This is one of the main ways milkfishes' lesser-prized yet highly abundant white meat is consumed. Other fishes used include shark, lizard fish, pike eel, and marlin.

Fish balls with roe (魚包蛋) are served at hot pot restaurants. They have a sweet and salty taste with a popping element from the roe's texture. There is also a fried golden version.

Southeast Asia

In Singapore, fish balls are also known as 鱼圆 (yú yuán) or 鱼丸 (yú wán).

Traditionally, fish balls were made from locally sourced fish such as coral fish and dorab. Production scale varies from individual hawker stalls to large corporate factories which supply the local and export markets. Due to higher labour costs and limited local fish supplies, surimi are mostly imported, and fish balls are produced at a lower cost by mixing surimi with fresh leached fish mince. Higher quality fish balls are made from wolf herring, coral fish, Spanish mackerel, and conger eel.

As of 2002, Singapore consumes approximately 10 kg of fish balls per capita per year, possibly the country with the highest consumption of fish balls in the world. They can be served with soup and noodles like the Chiuchow style or with yong tau foo (酿豆腐). They can also be served with noodles called mee pok.

Bak chor mee, a popular Singaporean dish which comes in both dry and soup versions, was listed as the top world street food by World Street Food Congress. In some cases, it is also fried and served on a stick. Fish balls are the second most processed fish-based product in Singapore, roughly 10% of the total produced.

Japanese fried fish balls

Fuzhou fish ball soup

Fuzhou fish ball soup from Lianjiang

Hakka fish ball rice noodle soup

Hong Kong fish balls made from dace

A bowl of curry fish balls, pork rinds and radish sold in Hong Kong

In Indonesia, fish balls are called bakso ikan (fish bakso) and often served with tofu, vegetables, and fish otak-otak in clear broth soup as tahu kok. It may be thinly sliced as additional ingredient in mie goreng, kwetiau goreng, nasi goreng and cap cai. A similar dish is called pempek, in which surimi is shaped into logs and fried. There are some dishes of fish ball soup called bakso kakap (snapper fish ball soup) from Semarang and bakso ikan marlin (sailfish or blue marlin fish ball soup) from Pesisir Barat, Lampung.

In Brunei, fish balls are called bebola ikan.

In Malaysia, fish balls are known as 鱼丸 (yú wán in Mandarin Chinese, jyu4 jyun2 in Cantonese, or hî-oân / hîr-oân / hû-oân in Hokkien) or 鱼蛋 (yú dàn in Mandarin, jyu4 daan3 in Cantonese), and bebola ikan in Malay. Popular dishes include fish ball noodle soup.

In the Philippines, there are fish balls (pishbol) and a similar dish called bola-bola, which is the same meat paste as fish cake, but wrapped in a wonton skin. Yellowtail fusilier, corn starch and baking powder are common ingredients.

In Thailand, fish balls are fried or grilled as snacks. In main dishes, fish balls are in Chinese style noodle soups and curry dishes such as Kaeng khiao wan luk chin pla, a green curry.

The most common varieties of fish used are threadfin bream, bigeye snapper, croaker, lizard fish, goatfish, and pla krai (Chitala ornata).

In Vietnam, fish balls are typically produced in seafood processing factories, then packaged and widely distributed in the market. Many vendors sell pre-fried fish balls as a snack for students right outside school gates. Fried fish balls are usually skewered and eaten with chili sauce. Additionally, fish balls are frequently used as an ingredient when eating hot pot, which many people commonly refer to as 'viên thả lẩu' (hot pot dipping/floating balls).

Bakso ikan (fish balls) with tofu soup in Indonesia

Deep-fried fish balls in a noodle soup from Kampar, Perak, Malaysia

Fried fish balls from the Philippines

Fish balls with vermicelli sold in Bukit Batok, Singapore

Thai kaeng khiao wan luk chin pla, green curry with fish balls

Vietnamese bún riêu

Europe

Known as Fiskbullar in Sweden and fiskeboller in Norway and Denmark, Nordic fish balls are white and without breading.

In Norway, fish balls (fiskeboller) are made using wheat and potato flour, milk, fish broth, salt and seasonings. When canned, they are packed in fish broth. Haddock is commonly used. They are commonly served with potatoes, carrots and/or cauliflower or broccoli in a white sauce. The sauce is often made with the stock from the container, sometimes with mild Madras curry seasoning as a condiment, or mixed to create curry sauce. Adding ketchup to the sauce is commonplace among children. Tiny fish balls called suppeboller (literally "soup balls") are also common in fish soup. Sideboller is made from coal-fish.

In Sweden, fiskbullar are normally served with mashed potatoes or rice, boiled green peas and dill, caviar or seafood sauces.

Iceland has two varieties; Fiskbollur [ˈfɪskˌpɔllʏr̥] is very similar to those of Norway and Sweden, whereas Fiskibollur [ˈfɪscɪˌpɔllʏr̥] are fried brown in a pan. Both varieties are served with boiled potatoes, carrots, lettuce, and either bechamel or Madras curry sauce.

In the Faroe Islands, fish balls are called knettir and are made with groundfish and mutton fat.

German fish balls, known locally as fischklößchen, rely heavily on herbs and herb sauces.

Gefilte fish, typical of Ashkenazi Jewish cuisine, has origins in 14th century non-Jewish Germanic cookery. Originally a stuffed fish dish, it suited the dietary cultural needs for Jewish celebrations, being an acceptable form of meat as well as already deboned which adheres to the restriction on picking through bones on the Sabbath. Jewish communities have their own versions based on local ingredients, such as the addition of sugar in Poland, black pepper in Lithuania, and cooking it in a tomato sauce in Libya.

A classic English variant (as well as in the US) uses cooked mashed potato and egg as a binder, and is pan fried. Cod is a popular fish for this style. "The Lone Fish-ball" was published in 1855 by George Martin Lane referencing this type of fish ball popular in New England.

Italian fish balls, known locally as polpette di pesce, are fried with Parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs, and usually served with a tomato sauce. They can be found both as rounded balls and as patties.

Fiskbullar atop rotini pasta

Jewish fish balls in tomato sauce

German fischklößchen

Italian fish balls with crab and zucchini

Italian crab fish balls with quinoa

Jewish gefilte fish balls served during Rosh Hashanah

West Africa

Fish balls are known as boulettes de poisson in Francophone African countries, and are commonly eaten in a tomato-based stew known as 'tchou' or 'chu' a Senegalese dish mainly known in Mauritania, Mali and The Gambia. Huntu is a fish ball dish from Sierra Leone that incorporates ginger.

See also

Asia portal

Europe portal

Africa portal

Food portal

Fishcake

Jiaozi

Quenelle

Meatball

References

^ Commodity Classifications Under the Harmonized System. Department of the Treasury, U.S. Customs Service. 1990. p. 194.

^ IFIS Dictionary of Food Science and Technology. John Wiley & Sons. 18 May 2009. p. 166. ISBN 978-1-4051-8740-4.

^ Ang, Catharina Y. W.; Liu, Keshun; Huang, Yao-Wen (5 April 1999). Asian Foods: Science and Technology. CRC Press. p. 267. ISBN 978-1-4822-7879-8.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n Park, Jae W. (12 November 2013). Surimi and Surimi Seafood (3 ed.). CRC Press. ISBN 978-1-4398-9857-4.

^ Park, Jae W. (29 March 2005). Surimi and Surimi Seafood (2 ed.). CRC Press. p. 388. ISBN 978-1-4200-2804-1.

^ Maggie Hiufu Wong (24 July 2015). "40 of the best Taiwanese foods and drinks". CNN. Retrieved 18 September 2021.

^ Erway, Cathy (2015). The Food of Taiwan. New York: Houghton Miller Harcourt. pp. 203–204. ISBN 9780544303010.

^ al, Silvestre, G. et (8 December 2003). Assessment, management and future directions for coastal fisheries in Asian countries. WorldFish. p. 860. ISBN 978-983-2346-22-7.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)

^ a b Jarvis, Norman D. (1943). Principles and Methods in the Canning of Fishery Products. U.S. Government Printing Office. pp. 291–292.

^ Kok, Tiong N.; Park, Jae W. (2007). "Extending the Shelf Life of Set Fish Ball". Journal of Food Quality. 30: 1–27. doi:10.1111/j.1745-4557.2007.00103.x. ISSN 1745-4557.

^ Kaba, N; Corapci, B; Eryasar, K; Yücel, S; Yesilayer, N (2014). "Determination of Shelf Life of Fish Ball Marinated after frying Process". Italian Journal of Food Science. 26 (2): 162–168.

^ Hellberg, Rosalee S.; Everstine, Karen; Sklare, Steven A. (30 November 2020). Food Fraud: A Global Threat with Public Health and Economic Consequences. Academic Press. p. 115. ISBN 978-0-12-817243-8.

^ Sarmiento, Katreena; Santos, Mudjekeewis Dalisay; Ventolero, Minerva Fatimae; Pereda, Jacqueline Marjorie R. (May 2018). "Not fish in fish balls: fraud in some processed seafood products detected by using DNA barcoding". ResearchGate. Retrieved 18 September 2021.

^ "Pig DNA found in cuttlefish and prawn balls: NUS researchers". TODAYonline. Retrieved 18 September 2021.

^ "Fujian Snacks". China Today. 68 (12): 61. December 2019. EBSCOhost 139982840 – via EBSCO.

^ Vannuccini, Stefania (1999). Shark utilization, marketing, and trade. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Rome: Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. pp. 80. ISBN 92-5-104361-2. OCLC 43695354.

^ "HONG KONG CURRY FISH BALLS". That Spicy Chick. 4 October 2021. Archived from the original on 25 January 2022. Retrieved 25 December 2022.

^ "Where to go to eat Hong Kong's best fish balls". South China Morning Post. 29 January 2019. Retrieved 18 September 2021.

^ a b "The humble fishball: the iconic street food that is Hong Kong". South China Morning Post. 5 September 2020. Retrieved 18 September 2021.

^ 《50經典小吃》刊於2003/01/10《飲食男女》

^ Man, Joyce "Aberdeen's best fish ball shop to close" Archived 29 February 2012 at the Wayback Machine CNN Go. 24 February 2012. Retrieved 4 March 2012

^ "Cheung Chau Fish Balls | Hong Kong Tourism Board". Discover Hong Kong. Archived from the original on 15 May 2023. Retrieved 15 May 2023.

^ Sahmet, Lorria (19 October 2021). "6 types of fish balls you will find around Hong Kong". Lifestyle Asia. Retrieved 16 May 2023.

^ 鄧宇詩, 任葆穎 (4 August 2024). "結業潮｜長洲老字號甘永泰魚蛋8.15日結業 旅發局推薦「一絕」". 香港01 (in Chinese (Hong Kong)). Retrieved 4 August 2024.

^ Mac, Gladys (June 2019). "Golden Chicken as Historicomedy: Sex Work in Hong Kong and Local Popular Culture". The Quint. 11. University College of the North: 116–117. ISSN 1920-1028.

^ Liao, Sara (2016), Lee, S. Austin; Pulos, Alexis (eds.), "Hong Kong Net-Bar Youth Gaming: A Labeling Perspective", Transnational Contexts of Development History, Sociality, and Society of Play, Cham: Springer International Publishing, pp. 193, 205, doi:10.1007/978-3-319-43820-7_7, ISBN 978-3-319-43819-1, retrieved 18 September 2021{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link)

^ Lam Min Lee (7 June 2017). "Singapore's bak chor mee tops world street food list". AsiaOne. Archived from the original on 4 July 2017. Retrieved 5 September 2017.

^ Husna, Ayu Miftakhul. "8 Kuliner Khas Semarang Cocok Disantap Saat Hujan Tiba, Ada Mi Siang Kie hingga Bakso Kakap". tribunnews.com (in Indonesian). Retrieved 21 April 2022.

^ Utami, Adisty Putri. "Gurihnya Bakso Ikan Blue Marlin di Lampung". kumparan.com (in Indonesian). Retrieved 21 April 2022.

^ "The real thing: Mei Keng's Teow Chew Fishball Noodles". 7 March 2020.

^ Report of the National Workshop on Micro-Enterprise Development in Coastal Communities in the Philippines: Sharing of Experiences and Lessons Learned : Davao City, Philippines, 7-10 March 2006. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. 2007. p. 95. ISBN 978-92-5-105869-5.

^ Pizzali, A. F. Medina; Nations, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United (2001). Low-cost Fish Retailing Equipment and Facilities in Large Urban Areas of Southeast Asia. Food & Agriculture Org. p. 115. ISBN 978-92-5-104653-1.

^ a b Multilingual Dictionary of Fish and Fish Products (in French). John Wiley & Sons. 24 September 2009. p. 74. ISBN 978-1-4443-1942-2.

^ "Icelandic Fish Balls". smartrestro.com. Archived from the original on 22 February 2026. Retrieved 22 February 2026.

^ "Grímur Kokkur Fiskibollur 1 kg" (in Icelandic). 22 September 2020. Archived from the original on 17 April 2021. Retrieved 17 April 2021.

^ "Beyond Gefilte Fish". Tablet Magazine. 18 March 2013. Retrieved 18 September 2021.

^ Escoffier, Auguste (6 June 2013). A Guide to Modern Cookery. Cambridge University Press. p. 351. ISBN 978-1-108-06350-0.

^ V, Primus (1 May 2009). "Song for Hard Times". Harvard Magazine. Retrieved 18 September 2021.

^ "Thiou Boulettes de Poisson du Sénégal - Recette par 196 flavors". Chef Simon, le plaisir de cuisiner. Cuisine, cours, techniques, partage de recettes, photos, vidéos. (in French). Retrieved 26 June 2024.

^ Bradford, Maria. "Fish Huntu". Olive. Retrieved 24 April 2024.

External links

Media related to Fish balls at Wikimedia Commons

Acarajé

Aloo chaat

Aloo tikki

Anticucho

Apam balik

Arancini

Asinan

Bakpau

Balık ekmek

Banana cue

Bánh hỏi

Bánh mì

Bánh xèo

Batagor

Beef Pares

Beguni

Belgian waffle

Beondegi

Bhel puri

Binaki

Binatog

Biryani

Bratwurst

Brochette

Bublik

Bubur ayam

Bun cha

Bungeo-ppang

Bunny chow

Burrito Breakfast burrito

Breakfast burrito

Calzone

Calamares

Camote cue

Cart noodle

Chebureki

Chiko Roll

Chimichanga

Chinese bhel

Cockle (bivalve)

Cōng yóu bǐng

Covrigi

Coxinha

Coxinha de farofa

Crescia

Currywurst

Dahi puri

Dak-kkochi

Dim sum

Donkey burger

Doubles

Douhua

Empanada

Enchilada

Esquites

Falafel

Farinata

Fish ball

Focaccia

French fries

French tacos

Fried chicken (Korean, Taiwanese)

Navajo frybread

Galette-saucisse

Ginanggang

Gorengan

Ghugni

Gukhwappang

Gyeranppang

Haleem

Hot dog

Inihaw

Jambon

Jhalmuri

Jiaozi

Kaassoufflé

Kachori

Kapsalon

Kati roll

Karantika

Kebab Chapli kebab Doner kebab Kyinkyinga Shami kebab List of kebabs

Chapli kebab

Doner kebab

Kyinkyinga

Shami kebab

List of kebabs

Kerak telor

Ketoprak

Khachapuri

Khanom Tokyo

Kikiam

Kwek Kwek

Lángos

Malatang

Maruya

Masala puri

Meat pie

Mie ayam

Murtabak

Nem chua rán

Obwarzanek krakowski

Pad thai

Pajeon

Pakora

Paneer tikka

Pani câ meusa

Panini

Panipuri

Panzerotti

Papri chaat

Paratha

Paratha roll

Pav bhaji

Pempek

Penyaram

Pepito

Peremech

Piadina

Picarones

Pinasugbo

Pirozhki

Pizza al taglio / Pizza by the slice

Pizzetta

Plăcintă

Pljeskavica

Poutine

Pretzel

Punugulu

Quail eggs

Quesadilla

Rat-on-a-stick

Ražnjići

Rogan josh

Roti bakar

Roti john

Roujiamo

Rumali roti

Rustico

Sabich

Samosa

Sandwich

Sardenara

Sausage roll

Scaccia

Seblak

Sevpuri

Shao Kao

Shashlik

Shawarma

Sicilian pizza

Siomay

Souvlaki

Stigghiola

Stromboli

Taco Korean taco

Korean taco

Tahu gejrot

Tahu sumedang

Takoyaki

Tamale

Tandoori chicken

Tangbao

Taquito

Tauge goreng

Tornado potato

U' pastizz 'rtunnar

Vada pav

Vastedda

Vietnamese noodles

Yakitori

Zapiekanka

Hong Kong

India Chennai Mumbai

Chennai

Mumbai

Indonesia

Mexico

Philippines

South Korea

Taiwan

Thailand

Field kitchen

Food booth

Food cart

Food truck Food truck rally

Food truck rally

Hot dog cart

Hot dog stand

Ice cream van

Sausage wagon

Taco stand

Pojangmacha

Würstelstand

List of street foods

List of food trucks

Varieties of kue/kuih

Buddha Jumps Over the Wall

Lychee pork

Qi Jiguang bread

Ding bian hu

Hujiao bing

Fujian red wine chicken

Shaxian delicacies

Gua bao

Fish ball

Bak kut teh

Ban mian

Lor mee

Ngo hiang

Oyster omelette

Popiah

Shacha sauce

Fuzhou cuisine

Putian cuisine

Cuisine of Hong Kong

Cuisine of Macao

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Bao yu

Bird's nest soup

Buddha's delight

Cantonese seafood soup

Chinese steamed eggs

Congee

Crispy fried chicken

Dragon tiger phoenix

Egg foo young

Eight treasure duck

Eight treasure rice

Hot pot

Lemon chicken

Pork knuckles and ginger stew

Seafood birdsnest

Shark fin soup

Snake bite chicken

Soy sauce chicken

Steam minced pork

Subgum

Suckling pig

Sweet and sour pork

White boiled shrimp

White cut chicken

Wonton noodles

Yangzhou fried rice

Almond tofu

Beef tripe

Cha siu bao

Chicken feet

Coconut bar

Har gow

Jian dui

Jiaozi

Lo mai gai

Lotus seed bun

Nian gao

Ox-tongue pastry

Rice noodle roll

Shumai

Spring roll

Steamed meatball

Swiss wing

Taro cake

Taro dumpling

Tendon

Tofu skin roll

Turnip cake

Water chestnut cake

Yau gok

Youtiao

Zhaliang

Char siu

Chinese sausage

Lou mei

Orange cuttlefish

Roast goose

Siu mei

Siu yuk

White cut chicken

Almond biscuit

Biscuit roll

Deuk Deuk Tong

Douhua

Ginger milk curd

Lo mai chi

Malay sponge cake

Mooncake

Red bean cake

Red bean soup

Sausage bun

Snow skin mooncake

Tang bu shuai

Tong sui

White sugar sponge cake

Fermented bean curd

Five-spice powder

XO sauce

Beef ball

Black bean paste

Chenpi

Conpoy

Fermented black beans

Fish ball

Fishcake

Frog legs

Garland chrysanthemum

Kai-lan

Mantis shrimp

Ong choy

Pig blood curd

Pig's ear

Rapeseed

Saang mein

Sea cucumbers

Shahe fen

Shrimp roe noodles

Spare ribs

Suan cai

Tofu skin

Wonton

Yi mein

Youmian

Zha cai

Chinese herb tea

Dried shredded squid

Lou fo tong

Cantonese restaurant

Beijing cuisine

Shanghai cuisine

Hong Kong cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Almond biscuit

Almond jelly

Baked pork chop rice

Bakkwa

Banana roll

Bao yu

Beef ball

Beef bun

Beef chow fun

Bird's nest soup

Biscuit roll

Buddha's delight

Cart noodle

Cha siu bao

Char siu

Chinese herb tea

Chinese sausage

Cocktail bun

Coconut bar

Congee

Cream bun

Crispy fried chicken

Deuk Deuk Tong

Dim sum

Douhua

Dried shredded squid

Egg tart

Egg waffle

Fish ball

Fishcake

Flame on the iceberg

Got fan

Ham and egg bun

Haw flakes

Honey walnut shrimp

Hong Kong-style milk tea

Hot pot

Jin deui

Kai-lan

Lai fun

Lo mai chi

Mango pomelo sago

Mango pudding

Ox-tongue pastry

Paper wrapped cake

Peanut butter bun

Pineapple bun

Poon choi

Put chai ko

Rapeseed

Red bean ice

Rice noodle roll

Roast goose

Roasted pig

Rousong

Saang mein

Sausage bun

Sea cucumber

Seafood birdsnest

Shahe fen

Singapore style noodles

Siu mei

Steamed meatball

Shrimp roe noodles

Shumai

Sorrowful Rice

Stinky tofu

Sweetheart cake

Swiss wing

Tang bu shuai

Taro cake

Taro dumpling

Tea egg

Tofu skin roll

Water caltrop

Water chestnut cake

White boiled shrimp

White cut chicken

White sugar sponge cake

Wonton

Wonton noodle

XO sauce

Yeung Chow fried rice

Yi mein

Yin yang fried rice

Yuenyeung

Zha cai

Zhaliang

The Banquet (1991)

Shogun and Little Kitchen (1992)

The Chinese Feast (1995)

The God of Cookery (1996)

Osaka Wrestling Restaurant (2004)

Kung Fu Chefs (2009)

Magic Chef (2005)

Hong Kong tea culture

Siu yeh

One bowl with two pieces

Private kitchens

Yum cha

Cha chaan teng

Dai pai dong

Beijing cuisine

Cantonese cuisine

Shanghai cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Singaporean cuisine

List of Singaporean dishes

Banmian

Beef kway teow

Beef noodle soup

Bee hoon goreng

Char kway teow

Crab bee hoon

Fish soup bee hoon

Hokkien mee

Laksa Katong laksa

Katong laksa

Kway chap

Kway teow goreng

Mee bakso

Mee goreng

Mee rebus

Mee pok Bak chor mee

Bak chor mee

Mee siam

Mee soto

Satay bee hoon

Vegetarian bee hoon

Biryani

Duck rice

Economy rice

Hainanese chicken rice

Hainanese curry rice

Ketupat

Nasi goreng

Nasi kunyit

Nasi lemak

Nasi padang

Nasi Rawon

Teochew porridge

Assam pedas

Ayam goreng

Ayam penyet

Bak kut teh

Black pepper crab

Chai tow kway

Char siu

Chilli crab

Dendeng paru

Fish head curry

Fish ball

Gudeg putih

Gulai daun ubi

Har cheong gai

Kerisik

Oyster omelette

Pecel lele

Pig fallopian tubes

Pig's organ soup

Rojak bandung

Roti john

Roti prata

Sambal

Sayur lodeh

Serunding

Sliced fish soup

Soto ayam

Soup kambing

Turtle soup

Ais kacang

Apam balik

Bubur cha cha

Cendol

Cheng tng

Curry puff

Ham chim peng

Kaya toast (Roti bakar)

Keropok

Kueh Laddu Lepat Modak Red peach cake Soon kueh

Red peach cake

Soon kueh

Otak-otak

Pisang goreng

Putugal

Sugee cake

Satti Sorru

Bandung

Milo dinosaur

Singapore Sling

Teh tarik

Bak kut teh

Bánh pía

Beef ball

Chai tow kway

Chwee kueh

Crab jujube

Fish ball

Fun guo

Jiaozi

Kway chap

Mee pok

Ngo hiang

Oyster omelette

Patriotic soup

Pig's organ soup

Popiah

Red peach cake

Sichuan pepper chicken

Shacha sauce

Soon kueh

Tao kuih

Teochew porridge

Tieguanyin

Yusheng

Beef noodle soup

Bento (Taiwan Railway Bento)

Congee

Coffin bread

Cuttlefish geng

Eel noodles

General Tso's chicken

Ginger duck

Glass noodles

Karasumi

Khong bah png

Lo bah png

Mongolian barbecue Mongolian beef

Mongolian beef

Mutton hot pot

Neritic squid rice noodles

Oyster vermicelli

Pineapple shrimp balls

Pork ball

Pumpkin rice vermicelli

Rice vermicelli

Sanbeiji

Sesame oil chicken

Sio-tsiú-ke

Ta-a mi

Turkey rice

Tsang Ying Tou

Tshik-á-mī

Tube rice pudding

Se-lóo-bah

Wu geng chang wang

Wanluan pork knuckle

Yao duen pai gu

Ba-wan

Barrel chicken

Chicken wing rice roll

Curry beef turnover

Danbing

Egg sausage

Fish ball

Fragrant sausage

Fried gluten with peanuts

Gua bao

Hujiao bing

Iron egg

Ji Pai

Lu wei

Milkfish congee

Moon shrimp cakes

Nutritious sandwich

Oo-peh-tshiat

Oyster omelette

Popiah

Scallion pancake

Shuangbaotai

Sishen soup

Small sausage in large sausage

Spring roll

Stinky tofu

Taiwanese fried chicken Cutlet

Cutlet

Tāu-kuann-tshiám

Tea egg

Tempura

Ti-hueh-kué

Xiaolongbao

Zongzi

Alivongvong

Cinavu

Millet wine

Aiyu jelly

Apple bread

Bakkwa

Brown sugar cake

Chhau-a-koe

Coconut bar

Concave cake

Communist bandit pastry

Douhua

Dried shredded squid

Egg yolk pastry

Grass jelly

Ji dan gao

Kiâm-piánn

Lek-tau-phong

Mango shaved ice

Ōo-á-ping

Peanut soup

Peanut ice cream roll

Pineapple cake

QQ egg

Scallion bread

Square cookie

Suncake

Taro ball

Taro pastry

Tshuah-ping

Wheel Pie

Youtiao

Coffee

Doujiang

Ginger tea

Grape wine

Kaoliang liquor

Mr. Brown Coffee

Papaya milk

Soy milk

Whisky

Taiwanese tea Bubble tea Cheese tea Fo Shou tea Tung-ting tea High mountain tea Lei cha Pouchong

Bubble tea

Cheese tea

Fo Shou tea

Tung-ting tea

High mountain tea

Lei cha

Pouchong

Watermelon milk

Winter melon punch

Black bean paste

Black vinegar

Milkfish

Rousong

Shacha sauce

André Chiang

Ching He Huang

Erchen Chang

Fu Pei-mei

Justine Li

Peng Chang-kuei

Wang Peng-chieh

Wu Pao-chun

Agriculture

Aquaculture

Kuai Kuai culture

List of Michelin-starred restaurants in Taiwan

List of restaurants in Taiwan

List of Taiwanese desserts and snacks

Night markets List

Tea culture

Q texture

Rechao

Category

Commons

Portal

WikiProject

bookshelf

Algeria

Angola

Botswana

Burkina Faso

Burundi

Cameroon

Cape Verde

Central African Republic

Comoros

Democratic Republic of the Congo

Djibouti

Equatorial Guinea

Eritrea

Eswatini (Swaziland)

Ethiopia

Gambia

Guinea

Guinea-Bissau

Ivory Coast

Lesotho

Liberia

Madagascar

Malawi

Mauritania

Mauritius

Morocco

Mozambique

Namibia

Nigeria

Republic of the Congo

Rwanda

São Tomé and Príncipe

Senegal

Seychelles

Sierra Leone

Somalia

South Africa

South Sudan

Tanzania

Tunisia

Uganda

Western Sahara

Zambia

Zimbabwe

Berber

Canary Islands

Jewish Ethiopian Mizrahi Sephardi

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Sephardi

Maghrebi

Mediterranean

Réunion

Saint Helena

West African

Zanzibar

List of African cuisines

List of African dishes

Category

# Wonton noodles


Media: Wonton noodles

Wonton noodles (Chinese: 雲吞麵; Jyutping: wan4 tan1 min6; Cantonese Yale: wàhn tān mihn, also called wantan mee or wantan mein) is a noodle dish of Cantonese origin. Wonton noodles were given their name, húntún (Chinese: 餛飩; Jyutping: wan4 tan1), in the Tang Dynasty (618-907 CE). The dish is popular in Southern China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Vietnam and Thailand. The dish usually consists of fresh egg noodles served in a hot broth, garnished with leafy vegetables and wonton dumplings. The types of leafy vegetables used are usually gai-lan, also known as Chinese broccoli or Chinese kale. Another type of dumpling known as shui jiao (水餃) is sometimes served in place of wonton. Shrimp wonton are mostly known as Hong Kong dumplings. The wontons contain prawns, chicken or pork, and spring onions, with some chefs adding mushroom and black fungus. In Indonesia, especially in North Sumatra, West Kalimantan and South Sulawesi, wonton noodles are called mie pangsit.

Regional variations

Guangzhou and Hong Kong

In Guangzhou and Hong Kong, wonton noodles are usually served in steaming hot soup with shrimp wontons and garnished with leafy vegetables. There are plenty of variations of this popular Cantonese dish, with different toppings and garnishes—for example, the soup and wontons being in separate bowls, the noodles being served relatively dry, served with toppings and garnishes, dressed with sauce, or dipped in the soup to eat it.

Guangzhou and Hong Kong-style wonton noodles have a few predominant characteristics: The wontons are predominantly prawn—with small amounts of minced pork, or no pork at all—traditional consisting of 70% shrimp and 30% pork. It is served with smooth thin noodles cooked al dente, in a hot, light brown soup (prepared from dried flounder). Garlic chives are often added as a garnish.

In order to ensure that the noodles are perfectly al dente, the noodles are blanched for only 10 seconds, after which they are rinsed under cold water and placed in the serving bowl atop the wontons. Hot bouillon soup is then scooped into the bowl, on top of the wonton noodles. This style's soup is said to be characterised by its flavourful, savoury taste, yet not so strong as to overpower the taste of the wonton and the noodles which it accompanies.

When served, the spoon is customarily placed at the bottom, with the wontons above the spoon and the noodles on top; this is done due to the belief that letting the noodles soak in the soup for too long will leave them overcooked.

Although the "wonton noodle" is synonymous with wonton and noodles served in hot soup, the dish may also be served "dry", as in lo mein (撈麵), where the wonton are placed on a large bed of noodles.

Cambodia

The dish has also been adopted into Cambodian cuisine, where it is called mee kiev (Khmer: មីគាវ) in Khmer. The broth is clear, topped with garlic chives and the dumplings are filled with seasoned minced pork and shrimp. Variations are often served with wheat vermicelli, a mixture of rice-wheat noodles or flat rice noodles (គុយទាវមីគាវ, kŭytéav mii kiəv).

Indonesia

Indonesia has their own style of wonton noodles called mie pangsit or pangsit mie. They are usually served dry with a separate broth. Fried wonton locally called pangsit goreng is one of the ingredients. Some cities with abundant typical mie pangsit are Malang in East Java, and Makassar in South Sulawesi.

Malaysia

Malaysia offers different versions of the dish, with different states having different versions of the dish and there are versions from Johor, Pahang, Perak, Penang, Sarawak, and Selangor. The Malaysian version differs from the original in having slices of char siu (barbecued pork) added to the dish, as well as the possibility of the soup and wontons being in separate bowls, the noodles being served relatively dry, dressed with oyster sauce and garnished with chopped spring onions while the wontons are in a soup bowl usually with spring onions added in as well. Some stalls include deep-fried wontons in the dry versions as well.

Often served wet, the Hong Kong version can be found at Cantonese noodle joints with it being dry or soup. In Malacca, wontons are placed together with the noodles and wonton soup can be ordered separately. The Malacca version is also usually spicier than the other Malaysian versions due to the use of a special unsweetened chili sauce.

Vegetarian wonton mee is also served in Malaysia in vegetarian restaurants. Instead of using pork to make char siu, wheat gluten is used.

Philippines

There are three distinct types of wonton noodle dishes found in Philippines. One is mami, which is a noodle soup that has egg noodles, wontons, and various vegetables in a hot broth. The name mami is derived from a Chinese phrase that means “pork noodles". Another type is pancit molo, which is similar to mami, but the noodles used are the wonton wrappers themselves. The third type of wonton noodles is stir-fry egg noodles sold by hawkers and in small "stand-up" type stalls. Here, the noodles are stir-fried with mung bean sprouts and vegetables, flavored with a range of sauces, and finally topped with wontons.

Singapore

Singapore wonton noodles includes noodles, leafy vegetables (preferably cai-xin), barbecued pork (char siu) and bite-sized dumplings or wonton. It is either served dry or in soup form with the former being more popular. If served dry, the wontons will be served in a separate bowl of soup. Shui jiao or prawn dumplings are served at some stalls and the original Hong Kong version is available at Cantonese restaurants and noodle joints. Fried wontons (wontons deep-fried in oil) are sometimes served instead of, or in addition to, those boiled in the soup. The Singaporean and Malaysian versions of the wonton noodle are similar to each other, though the Singapore version uses significantly less soy sauce and is often served with chilli ketchup.

Thailand

Wonton noodles (Thai: บะหมี่เกี๊ยว; bami kiao) are also very popular in Thailand, where, as in Malaysia and Singapore, the dish is often ordered together with barbecued pork which is then called bami mu daeng kiao (Thai: บะหมี่หมูแดงเกี๊ยว; mu daeng meaning "red pork"). As is customary with many noodle soups of Chinese origin in Thailand, chillies preserved in vinegar, dried chilli flakes, sugar, and fish sauce are added to taste. The dish is mostly eaten in soup form but it can also be served dry with the broth on the side.

Vietnam

Súp mì or mì for short is a Chinese-Vietnamese noodle soup, introduced to Vietnam by Chinese immigrants. Mì hoành thánh (mì vằn thắn) is the Vietnamese version of wonton noodle soup. Noodles can be served with the soup or soup separately. Common ingredients are yellow wheat (egg) noodles with pork-based broth, ground pork, chives, and various meats and toppings.

See also

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese soups

List of noodle dishes

List of soups

Food portal

References

^ a b "Deconstructing wonton noodles". South China Morning Post. June 25, 2015. Retrieved September 8, 2018.

^ Max (2018-10-04). "Wonton 馄饨". MyKindofEats. Archived from the original on February 19, 2019. Retrieved 2019-02-18.

^ a b "How does Hong Kong's wonton compare with Singapore's or Malaysia's?". South China Morning Post. 2019-08-12. Retrieved 2022-02-01.

^ Ang, Darren (2017-05-30). "Wanton Mee's humble history has made it a cornerstone of Asian cuisine". Darren Bloggie - Singapore Lifestyle Blog. Archived from the original on 2023-03-29. Retrieved 2022-11-17.

^ Chan, Hoishan (26 December 2011). "Best wonton noodles in Hong Kong". CNN Travel. Retrieved 28 October 2012.

^ a b c d Fern, Ong Sor (2017-04-25). "Exploring the regional differences in a dish of wonton noodles | The Straits Times". www.straitstimes.com. Retrieved 2022-11-17.

^ "粥、粉、麵 | 香港旅遊發展局". www.discoverhongkong.com. Retrieved 2019-02-18.

^ White, Adam (2017-07-09). "World's best dishes: Hong Kong wonton noodles". Discovery. Retrieved 2022-11-17.

^ "Mak's Noodle Hong Kong". legourmet.tv. Archived from the original on 9 September 2012. Retrieved 28 October 2012.

^ Hutama, Dimas. "Resep Mie Pangsit Malang, Gurihnya Bikin Susah Move On!". idntimes.com (in Indonesian). Retrieved 16 April 2025.

^ Novrian, Aditya. "Tiga Rekomendasi Mie Pangsit di Malang". jawapos.com (in Indonesian). Archived from the original on 3 July 2025. Retrieved 3 July 2025.

^ Arifwangsa, Arga. "Mencicipi Satu-satunya Pangsit Mie yang Halal di Pecinan Makassar". kumparan.com (in Indonesian). Archived from the original on 3 July 2025. Retrieved 3 July 2025.

^ "Wonton Noodles | Traditional Noodle Dish From Guangdong | TasteAtlas". www.tasteatlas.com. Retrieved 2022-11-17.

^ DURAI, ABIRAMI (13 July 2017). "A wantan mee with a 62-year history". The Star. Retrieved 2022-11-17.

^ "Melaka style Wantan Mee – Foodeverywhere". 29 June 2012. Retrieved 2022-11-17.

^ "12 Best and Unique Pancit Noodle Dishes in the Philippine..." Guide to the Philippines. Retrieved 2022-03-11.

^ "Egg Noodles with Wontons and Red Thai Barbecue Pork – Ba Mee Kiew Moo Dang, Thai Noodles for Beginner Episode VII". The High Heel Gourmet. 2015-07-12. Archived from the original on 2022-11-17. Retrieved 2022-11-17.

^ Wiens, Mark (2014-03-24). "Ba Mee Jub Kang (บะหมี่จับกัง) - Big Bowls of Old Skool Egg Noodles in Bangkok's Yaowarat". Thai Street Food, Restaurants, and Recipes | Eating Thai Food. Retrieved 2022-11-17.

^ "Ngõ Nooks: A Steaming Bowl of Mỳ Vằn Thắn to Ward off Winter's Chill | Saigoneer". saigoneer.com. Retrieved 2022-11-17.

Bao yu

Bird's nest soup

Buddha's delight

Cantonese seafood soup

Chinese steamed eggs

Congee

Crispy fried chicken

Dragon tiger phoenix

Egg foo young

Eight treasure duck

Eight treasure rice

Hot pot

Lemon chicken

Pork knuckles and ginger stew

Seafood birdsnest

Shark fin soup

Snake bite chicken

Soy sauce chicken

Steam minced pork

Subgum

Suckling pig

Sweet and sour pork

White boiled shrimp

White cut chicken

Wonton noodles

Yangzhou fried rice

Almond tofu

Beef tripe

Cha siu bao

Chicken feet

Coconut bar

Har gow

Jian dui

Jiaozi

Lo mai gai

Lotus seed bun

Nian gao

Ox-tongue pastry

Rice noodle roll

Shumai

Spring roll

Steamed meatball

Swiss wing

Taro cake

Taro dumpling

Tendon

Tofu skin roll

Turnip cake

Water chestnut cake

Yau gok

Youtiao

Zhaliang

Char siu

Chinese sausage

Lou mei

Orange cuttlefish

Roast goose

Siu mei

Siu yuk

White cut chicken

Almond biscuit

Biscuit roll

Deuk Deuk Tong

Douhua

Ginger milk curd

Lo mai chi

Malay sponge cake

Mooncake

Red bean cake

Red bean soup

Sausage bun

Snow skin mooncake

Tang bu shuai

Tong sui

White sugar sponge cake

Fermented bean curd

Five-spice powder

XO sauce

Beef ball

Black bean paste

Chenpi

Conpoy

Fermented black beans

Fish ball

Fishcake

Frog legs

Garland chrysanthemum

Kai-lan

Mantis shrimp

Ong choy

Pig blood curd

Pig's ear

Rapeseed

Saang mein

Sea cucumbers

Shahe fen

Shrimp roe noodles

Spare ribs

Suan cai

Tofu skin

Wonton

Yi mein

Youmian

Zha cai

Chinese herb tea

Dried shredded squid

Lou fo tong

Cantonese restaurant

Beijing cuisine

Shanghai cuisine

Hong Kong cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Biangbiang noodles

Cellophane noodles

Cumian

Jook-sing noodles

Juanfen

Knife-cut noodles

Lamian

Lai fun

Mixian

Mung bean sheets

Oil noodles

Rice noodles

Rice vermicelli

Saang mein

Shahe fen

Shrimp roe noodles

Silver needle noodles

Yi mein

Youmian

Halušky

Schupfnudel

Spätzle

Hiyamugi

Instant noodles

Shirataki noodles

Farfel

Lokshen

Ptitim

Varnishkes

Cheonsachae

Dangmyeon

Dotori-guksu

Garak-guksu

Jjolmyeon

Mak-guksu

Somyeon

Sujebi

Khanom chin

Bihun goreng

Curry mee

Char kway teow

Hae mee

Katong Laksa

Kolo mee

Lor mee

Mee goreng

Mee bandung Muar

Mee pok

Mee siam

Mee Jawa

Mee tauhu

Satay bee hoon

Kat kyi kaik

Khauk swè thoke

Kya zan hinga

Kyay oh

Meeshay

Mohinga

Mont di

Nan gyi thohk

Ohn no khao swè

Sigyet khauk swè

Kuyteav

Num banhchok

Beshbarmak

Laghman

Ants climbing a tree

Banmian

Beef chow fun

Beef noodle soup

Chow mein

Crossing-the-bridge noodles

Dandan noodles

Hokkien mee

Hot dry noodles

Kaomianjin

Liangpi

Lo mein

Mee pok

Millinge

Shanghai fried noodles

Wonton noodles

Zhajiangmian

Ganmianpi

Bihun goreng

I fu mie

Ketoprak

Kwetiau ayam

Kwetiau goreng

Kwetiau sapi

Mie aceh

Mie ayam

Mie bakso

Mie Bangladesh

Mie caluk

Mie cakalang

Mie celor

Mie gomak

Mie goreng

Mie jawa

Mie kangkung

Mie kari

Mie kering

Mie koclok

Mie kocok

Mie rebus

Soto ayam

Soto mie

Tekwan

Aburasoba Taiwan mazesoba

Taiwan mazesoba

Champon

Harusame saifun

Sara udon

Tantanmen

Tokoroten

Tsukemen

Yaki udon

Yakisoba

Jewish chicken noodle soup

Kasha varnishkes

Kugel Yerushalmi

Lokshen mit kaese

Noodle kugel

Bibim-guksu

Garak-guksu

Gogi-guksu

Jajangmyeon

Janchi-guksu

Japchae

Jat-guksu

Jjamppong

Jjapaguri (ram-don)

Kal-guksu

Kong-guksu

Mak-guksu

Milmyeon

Naengmyeon

Ramyeon

Batchoy

Maki mi

Pancit buko

Pancit bihon

Pancit choca

Pancit estacion

Pancit kinalas

Pancit lomi

Pancit Malabon

Pancit Molo

Shing-a-ling

Pancit sotanghon

Sopa de fideo

Eel noodles

Oyster vermicelli

Pumpkin rice vermicelli

Ta-a mi

Taiwanese beef noodle soup

Tshik-á-mī

Kuai tiao

Khao soi

Mi krop

Nam ngiao

Kuaitiao nam tok

Pad kee mao

Pad see ew

Pad thai

Rat na

Bánh canh

Bánh cuốn

Bánh hỏi

Bún bò Huế

Bún mắm

Bún ốc

Bún riêu

Bún thịt nướng

Cao lầu

Mì Quảng

Bún chả

Fried noodles

Thukpa

Imperial Big Meal

Indomie

Lucky Me!

Maruchan

Master Kong

Mie Sedaap

Mr. Noodles

Nissin Foods Chikin Ramen Cup Noodles Demae Ramen Top Ramen

Chikin Ramen

Cup Noodles

Demae Ramen

Top Ramen

Prima Taste

Prince Noodles

Samyang Ramen

Sapporo Ichiban

Science Noodles

Shin Ramyun

Smith & Jones

The Nation's

TTL Hua Tiao Chicken Noodles

Wai Wai

Wei Lih Men

Noodles Instant

Instant

Noodle dishes Fried noodles Ramen

Fried noodles

Noodle restaurants Ramen

Cart noodle

Noodle soup

Nunuk Nuraini

Category

Almond biscuit

Almond jelly

Baked pork chop rice

Bakkwa

Banana roll

Bao yu

Beef ball

Beef bun

Beef chow fun

Bird's nest soup

Biscuit roll

Buddha's delight

Cart noodle

Cha siu bao

Char siu

Chinese herb tea

Chinese sausage

Cocktail bun

Coconut bar

Congee

Cream bun

Crispy fried chicken

Deuk Deuk Tong

Dim sum

Douhua

Dried shredded squid

Egg tart

Egg waffle

Fish ball

Fishcake

Flame on the iceberg

Got fan

Ham and egg bun

Haw flakes

Honey walnut shrimp

Hong Kong-style milk tea

Hot pot

Jin deui

Kai-lan

Lai fun

Lo mai chi

Mango pomelo sago

Mango pudding

Ox-tongue pastry

Paper wrapped cake

Peanut butter bun

Pineapple bun

Poon choi

Put chai ko

Rapeseed

Red bean ice

Rice noodle roll

Roast goose

Roasted pig

Rousong

Saang mein

Sausage bun

Sea cucumber

Seafood birdsnest

Shahe fen

Singapore style noodles

Siu mei

Steamed meatball

Shrimp roe noodles

Shumai

Sorrowful Rice

Stinky tofu

Sweetheart cake

Swiss wing

Tang bu shuai

Taro cake

Taro dumpling

Tea egg

Tofu skin roll

Water caltrop

Water chestnut cake

White boiled shrimp

White cut chicken

White sugar sponge cake

Wonton

Wonton noodle

XO sauce

Yeung Chow fried rice

Yi mein

Yin yang fried rice

Yuenyeung

Zha cai

Zhaliang

The Banquet (1991)

Shogun and Little Kitchen (1992)

The Chinese Feast (1995)

The God of Cookery (1996)

Osaka Wrestling Restaurant (2004)

Kung Fu Chefs (2009)

Magic Chef (2005)

Hong Kong tea culture

Siu yeh

One bowl with two pieces

Private kitchens

Yum cha

Cha chaan teng

Dai pai dong

Beijing cuisine

Cantonese cuisine

Shanghai cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Asam pedas

Ayam bakar

Ayam goreng

Ayam masak kicap

Ayam masak merah

Ayam penyet

Bubur Bubur asyura Bubur ayam Bubur kacang hijau Bubur lambuk Bubur pedas Bubur pulut hitam

Bubur asyura

Bubur ayam

Bubur kacang hijau

Bubur lambuk

Bubur pedas

Bubur pulut hitam

Dendeng

Ikan bakar

Ikan goreng

Kangkung belacan

Ketupat

Kway teow goreng

Lemang

Lontong

Masak lemak lada api

Mee bakso

Mee bandung Muar

Mee goreng

Mee jawa

Curry mee

Mee rebus

Mee siam

Nasi ambeng

Nasi campur

Nasi dagang

Nasi goreng American fried rice Nasi goreng pattaya

American fried rice

Nasi goreng pattaya

Nasi katok

Nasi kerabu

Nasi kuning

Nasi lemak

Nasi minyak

Nasi paprik

Nasi tumpang

Nasi ulam

Otak-otak

Pekasam

Pindang

Pulot tartal

Ramly burger

Roti canai

Roti Jala

Rendang

Rojak Rojak bandung

Rojak bandung

Sayur lodeh

Satay Satay celup

Satay celup

Serundeng

Soto Soto ayam Mee soto

Soto ayam

Mee soto

Sup Soup kambing Sup tulang

Soup kambing

Sup tulang

Tauhu goreng

Telur pindang

Tongmo

Bakkwa

Bak kut teh

Banmian

Bean sprouts chicken

Beef kway teow

Chai tow kway

Char kway teow

Char siu Cha siu bao

Cha siu bao

Chee cheong fun

Chicken chop

Chwee kueh

Claypot chicken rice

Curry Mee

Duck rice

Duck soup noodles

Economy rice/Mixed rice

Egg tart

Fish ball

Fish head bee hoon

Hae mee

Hainanese chicken rice

Heong Peng

Hokkien mee

Kolo mee

Kway chap

Kway Teow Th'ng

Lei cha

Lo mai gai

Loh bak

Lor mee

Mee pok

Oyster omelette

Pan mee

Popiah

Sar Hor Fun

Lou Shee Fun

Teochew Porridge

Tong sui

Wonton mee

Tambun biscuit

Yee Foo Mee

Yong tau foo

You char kway

Yusheng

Zongzi

Banana leaf rice

Butter chicken

Dalcha

Puliyodarai

Curd rice

Chapati

Fish molee

Mee goreng Maggi goreng Mee goreng mamak

Maggi goreng

Mee goreng mamak

Mee rebus

Mamak Rojak (Rojak Klang)

Murtabak

Mutton curry

Nasi biryani

Nasi kandar

Pasembur

Putu mayam

Roti canai

Roti tissue

Sup kambing

Satti Sorru

Payasam

Paniyaram

Pongal

Adhirasam

Murukku

Sambar

Papadum

Tandoori chicken

Ambuyat

Hinava

Linatan

Linongot

Manok pansoh

Mee tauhu

Nasi kombos

Nasi laru

Nasik aruk

Sinalau bakas

Tonokon

Asam laksa/Laksa lemak

Buah keluak

Bubur cha cha

Cap cai

Kerabu Bihun

Perut Ikan

Pie tee

Pongteh

Nyonya Bak Chang

Shepherd's pie

Oxtail stew

Chicken chop

Devil's curry

Bahulu

Batik cake

Heong peng

Roti bakar (Kaya toast)

Sarawak layer cake

Amplang

Rempeyek

Mee Siput Muar

Apam balik

Bingka

Borasa

Cincin

Cucur Jemput-jemput Penyaram Pisang goreng

Jemput-jemput

Penyaram

Pisang goreng

Jelurut

Karipap

Kelupis

Gelang

Kue kembang goyang

Gulung

Makmur

Mooncake

Ondeh-ondeh

Otokon

Red peach cake

Red tortoise cake

Pie tee

Pulut inti

Pulut panggang

Puto Putu bambu/Putu bumbong Putu mangkuk/piring

Putu bambu/Putu bumbong

Putu mangkuk/piring

Qasidah

Sapit/Gulong/Kapit

Seri Muka

Soon kueh

Tat/Tae

Lamban

Punjung

Roti tisu

Sagu Gula Melaka

Bandung

Cendol

Cheng tng

Cincau

Chrysanthemum tea

Ginger tea

Ipoh white coffee

Janda pulang

Soy milk

Teh tarik

Lihing

Montoku

Sambal Belacan Budu Cincalok Tempoyak

Belacan

Cincalok

Tempoyak

Category: Malaysian cuisine

List of Malaysian dishes

Abgoosht

Açorda

Acquacotta

Aguadito

Ajiaco

Ajoblanco

Alicot

Analı kızlı soup

Andrajos

Asian soups

Asopao

Aush reshteh

Aush-e Sholeh Ghalamkar

Avgolemono

Awara broth

Babbouche

Bacon soup

Baeksuk

Bagnun

Bak kut teh

Balık çorbası

Beef bourguignon

Bermuda fish chowder

Binakol

Binte biluhuta

Bird's nest soup

Birria

Black sesame soup

Bob chorba

Bobó de camarão

Booyah

Borș de burechiușe

Bosintang

Bosnian pot

Bouillabaisse

Bourride

Bouyon

Bozbash

Bouillon/broth

Bread soup

Brudet

Brunswick stew

Budae-jjigae

Bulalo

Burgoo

Buridda

Butajiru

Cacciucco

Caldillo de congrio

Caldillo de perro

Caldo de costilla

Caldo de pollo

Caldo de siete mares

Caldo galego

Caldo tlalpeño

Caldo Xóchitl

Caldume

Callos Callos a la Madrileña

Callos a la Madrileña

Canh chua

Canja de galinha

Canja de Goa

Cantonese seafood soup

Caparrones

Catfish stew

Cazuela

Chabrot

Chairo

Chakapuli

Chakna

Changua

Chankonabe

Charquicán

Chicken soup

Chikhirtma

Cholent

Chorba

Chraime

Chueo-tang

Chupe Chupe andino

Chupe andino

Cioppino

Ciorbă de perișoare

Clemole

Cocido Cocido lebaniego Cozido à portuguesa

Cocido lebaniego

Cozido à portuguesa

Cock-a-leekie

Cockchafer soup

Conch soup

Consommé

Corn crab soup

Coto makassar

Cow cod soup

Cream stew

Cuchuco

Cullen skink

Dak-bokkeum-tang

Dak-hanmari

Dalithoy

De-Thuk

Dillegrout

Dinengdeng

Dinuguan

Doenjang-jjigae

Dojō nabe

Efo riro

Egg drop soup

Egg tong sui

Empal gentong

Encebollado

Escudella

Étouffée

Fabes con almejas

Fanesca

Fish soup

Fish soup bee hoon

Fish tea

Flädle

Főzelék

Fricasé

Fricassee

Fugu chiri

Gaisburger Marsch

Gamja-tang

Garbure

Garlic soup

Garmugia

Gazpachuelo

Gheimeh

Ginataan Ginataang ampalaya Ginataang hipon Ginataang isda Ginataang kalabasa Ginataang labong Ginataang langka Ginataang manok

Ginataang ampalaya

Ginataang hipon

Ginataang isda

Ginataang kalabasa

Ginataang labong

Ginataang langka

Ginataang manok

Ginestrata

Ginseng chicken soup

Gising-gising

Goat meat pepper soup

Goulash

Gomguk

Gomgush

Gopchang-jeongol

Guk Doenjang-guk Haejang-guk Jaecheop-guk Mandu-guk Sungeo-guk Tteokguk

Doenjang-guk

Haejang-guk

Jaecheop-guk

Mandu-guk

Sungeo-guk

Tteokguk

Gukbap Gul-gukbap

Gul-gukbap

Gulyásleves

Guyanese pepperpot

Fisherman's soup (Halászlé)

Haleem

Harira

Harqma

Hasenpfeffer

Herring soup

Heugyeomso-tang

Hochzeitssuppe

Hodge-Podge

Hot and sour soup

Hulatang

Hủ tiếu

Indio viejo

Instant soup

Inubaran

Irish stew

Isi ewu

Istrian stew

Italian wedding soup (or minestra maritata)

Jenny Lind's soup

Jeongol

Jijimi

Jjigae Kimchi-jjigae

Kimchi-jjigae

Jusselle

Kadyos, baboy, kag langka

Kadyos, manok, kag ubad

Kaeng pa

Kaeng som

Kakavia

Kaledo

Kapuska

Kare-kare

Kawlata

Keng No Mai

Kharcho

Khichra

Khoresh Khoresh bademjan

Khoresh bademjan

Kokotxas

Kontomire stew

Köttsoppa

Krentjebrij

Kubbeh

Lamb in Chilindrón

Lentil soup

Light Soup

Linarang

Linat-an

Liver soup

Lobster stew

Lohikeitto

Lung fung soup

Maeun-tang

Magiritsa

Maki mi

Marghi special

Matzah ball soup

Mannish water

Meatball soup

Mechado

Menudo

Mock turtle soup

Mocotó

Mole de olla

Moqueca

Mulligan stew

Mulligatawny

Nam kaeng hua chai thao

Nangchang Jar soup

Nasi gandul

Nettle soup

Nihari

Nikujaga

Nilaga

Nsala soup

Oghwevwri

Okroshka

Olla podrida

Opor ayam

Ori-tang

Or lam

Oxtail soup

Paila marina

Palóc soup

Panada

Pancit buko

Pappa al pomodoro

Partan bree

Peppersoup

Perpetual stew

Philadelphia Pepper Pot

Pichelsteiner

Pie floater

Pindang

Pira caldo

Plantain soup

Portable soup

Pot liquor

Pottage

Powsowdie

Pozole

Prawn soup

Prežganka

Psarosoupa Bourdeto

Bourdeto

Puchero

Purée Mongole

Qovurma

Ragout fin

Rassolnik

Ribollita

Sagamite

Saltah

Sancocho

Samgye-tang

Samlar kako

Samlor machu

Sciusceddu

Scotch broth

Scouse

Seolleongtang

Shambar

Shark fin soup Buddha Jumps Over the Wall

Buddha Jumps Over the Wall

Siemieniotka

Sinanglay

Sinigang

Sinseollo

Sishen soup

Skilly

Skirts and kidneys

Sliced fish soup

Solyanka

Sonofabitch stew

Sopa de gato

Sopa de mondongo

Sopa de pata

Sopa do Espírito Santo

Sop saudara

Soto ayam

Soto padang

Soup alla Canavese

Soup joumou

Soup Number Five

Soup with risotto

Sour soup

Soyutma

Steckrübeneintopf

Stracciatella

Styrian sour soup

Suaasat

Suam na mais

Sulu köfte

Sundubu-jjigae

Sup kambing

Swikee

Tacacá

Taco soup

Talunan

Tapado

Tas kebab

Tatws Pum Munud

Tchaka

Tekwan

Tharid

Tharida

Tiger penis soup

Tinola

Tiyula itum

Tomato and egg soup

Tomato bredie

Tom kha kai

Tom khlong

Tom som

Tom yum

Tongseng

Tortilla soup

Tourin

Tripe soup

Tuna pot

Turkish cold bulgur soup

Turtle soup Palgwa-tang Snapper soup

Palgwa-tang

Snapper soup

Tyurya

Valdiviano

Waterzooi

Windsor soup

Yeonpo-tang

Yukgaejang

Yuvarlakia

Zuppa alla modenese

Zuppa pavese

Zuppa toscana

Blood soup

Black soup

Chicken and duck blood soup

Czernina

Duck blood and vermicelli soup

Kiszczonka

Mykyrokka

Nam tok

Pig's organ soup

Pork blood soup

Prdelačka

Saksang

Schwarzsauer

Svartsoppa

15 Bean Soup

Amish preaching soup

Bissara

Bob chorba

Bouneschlupp

Brenebon

Cocido madrileño

Cocido montañés

Fabada asturiana

Fasolada

Hong dou tang

Jókai bean soup

Koottu

Kuru fasulye

Kusksu

Minestra di ceci

Pasta e fagioli

Pasulj

Red peas soup

Senate bean soup

Sopa de lacassá

Soupe aux gourganes

Stew peas

Cheese soup

Beer soup

Caldo de queso

Mote de queso

Soupe au fromage

Ash-e doogh

Bisque

Bobó de camarão

Chicken mull

Chowder Clam chowder Corn chowder Fish chowder

Clam chowder

Corn chowder

Fish chowder

Cream of asparagus soup

Cream of broccoli soup

Cream of mushroom soup

Cream of spinach

Crème Ninon

Kulajda

Oyster stew

She-crab soup

Soup du Barry

Southern Illinois chowder

Talbina

Tarator

Tarhana

Toyga soup

Tzatziki

Vichyssoise

Yayla çorbası

Fruit soup

Fruktsoppa

Apple soup

Avocado soup

Blåbärssoppa

Coconut soup

Lime soup

Melon soup

Palm nut soup

Pomegranate soup

Rose hip soup

Sour cherry soup

Noodle soup

Acorn noodle soup

Aush reshteh

Bánh canh

Banmian

Batchoy

Beef kway teow

Beef noodle soup Lanzhou beef noodle soup Taiwanese beef noodle soup

Lanzhou beef noodle soup

Taiwanese beef noodle soup

Boat noodles

Bún bò Huế

Bún mắm

Bún riêu

Champon

Chicken soup

Crossing-the-bridge noodles

Curry mee

Duck blood and vermicelli soup

Duck soup noodles

Garak-guksu

Gogi-guksu

Guthuk

Hokkien mee

Janchi-guksu

Jat-guksu

Jjamppong

Jungguk-naengmyeon

Kal-guksu

Khao piak sen

Khao poon

Khao soi

Khow suey

Kong-guksu

Kusksu

Kuyteav

Kwetiau ayam

Kya zan hinga

Kyay oh

Lagham

Laksa Katong laksa

Katong laksa

Lamian

Laoyou rice noodles

Macaroni soup

Mami soup

Mee bandung

Mie Bangladesh

Mee ka tee

Mie aceh

Mie ayam

Mie bakso

Mie cakalang

Mie celor

Mie koclok

Mie kocok

Mie kuah

Milmyeon

Mohinga

Mont di

Naengmyeon

Nam ngiao

Num banhchok

Ohn no khao swè

Okinawa soba

Oyster vermicelli

Pasta e fagioli

Pho Phở Hòa Phở Ta

Phở Hòa

Phở Ta

Ramen Tsukemen

Tsukemen

Saimin

Sukhothai rice noodles

Sopa de fideo

Soto ayam

Soto mie

Thenthuk

Thukpa

Thukpa bhatuk

Tian mo

Ulmyeon

Wonton noodles

Yaka mein

Zatiruha

Peanut soup

Walnut soup

Peanut stew

Vegetable soup

Aloo tama

Atama soup

Aush jushpare

Binignit

Borscht

Cabbage soup

Caldo verde

Carrot soup

Česnečka

Chè bà ba

Chileatole

Ching bo leung

Corn soup

Corn stew

Cream of asparagus soup

Cream of broccoli soup

Cucumber soup

Dongchimi

Edikang ikong

Editan

Ezogelin soup

French onion soup

Gamja-ongsimi

Gazpacho

Kenchin-jiru

Kesäkeitto

Krupnik

Leek soup

Lettuce soup

Manchow soup

Mandia peja

Minestrone

Miso soup

Miyar kuka

Miyeok-guk

Molagoottal

Okra soup

Patriotic soup

Pea soup

Pickle soup

Porra antequerana

Pomegranate soup

Pumpkin soup

Sai bhaji

Salmorejo Zoque

Sambar

Sayur asem

Sayur bayam

Sayur lodeh

Sayur sop

Sheep's sorrel soup

Sinabawang gulay

Sopa teologa

Sorrel soup

Spinach soup

Spring soup

Sweet potato soup

Theeyal

Tomato soup

Tuo Zaafi

Vori vori

Watercress soup

West Slavic fermented cereal soups

Xidoufen

Zalewajka

Soup and sandwich

List of soups

More soup-related list articles...

List of stews

Food portal

Category: Soups

# Egg waffle


Media: Egg waffle

An egg waffle (雞蛋仔) is a spherical egg-based waffle popular in Hong Kong and Macau, consisting of an eggy leavened batter cooked between two plates of semi-spherical cells. They are usually served hot, and often eaten plain, although they may be served with fruit and flavors such as strawberry, coconut, or chocolate. It is referred to by its original Cantonese name, gai daan jai (雞蛋仔), and in English, an egg puff, bubble waffle, eggette, pancake balls, pancake waffle, egglet, and puffle.[citation needed] They are sometimes referred to as Hong Kong cakes in Chinatowns across America, especially in New York. One piece of egg waffle can have around 20 to 35 small round "balls".

Egg waffles are among the most popular Hong Kong "street snacks" and were ranked No. 1 in a 100 most popular HK street snack listing. They have been a favored street snack since their emergence in the 1950s, when they were made with coal fire heating and sold from street kiosks in Hong Kong.

History

The origins of the egg waffle or gai daan jai (which literally translates to "little chicken egg") are unknown, despite being ingrained in the memories of Hong Kong residents young and old. One story says the enterprising post-war generation created the egg-shaped mold to make up for an eggless batter, as eggs used to be a luxury. Another tale points to street hawkers who bought damaged eggs on the cheap to work them into a batter, resulting in the classic golden color of the cake. It also is reasonable to suggest that the special iron skillet used to mold the gai daan jai is a Hong Kong take on the traditional checkered European waffle press.

There is also another tale that in 1944, a food stall owner named Mr. Cheung, began using a cart to sell daan kau jai (蛋球仔), which is the predecessor of egg waffle. Daan kau jai was bigger than an egg waffle, and was often divided into 30 pieces for selling by the hawkers.

Preparation

Egg waffles are made from a sweet, egg-rich batter that is cooked on a hot griddle, a special frying pan with small round cells (resembling an æbleskiver pan but with a higher number of smaller round cells). The griddle is set on hot coals in the fire, or more commonly on an electrical heater. The batter is poured over the special frying pan and heated; the small ovals of egg waffles are thus formed. The crucial key to prepare a crispy egg waffle is to turn over the pan quickly after the batter is poured into the hot frying pan. This could create an egg waffle that is crispy on top, and cake-like on the bottom. The waffle is also crispy on the outside with each bubble providing a fluffiness on the inside. In addition to the conventional "egg taste", they are also available in a variety of flavours such as chocolate, green-tea, ginger, etc. Most batters used in egg waffle are quick breads, although some are also made using a yeast-raised or fermented batter. Egg waffles can be eaten at different times of the day, depending on local tradition.[citation needed]

Modern flavours

Despite the origin of the traditional egg waffle is from Hong Kong, it is nowadays being reinvented all around the world. It is common to see the egg waffle in a variety of flavours such as green tea, chocolate, cheese, pandan, or purple sweet potato, but it has also gained popularity as a dessert in which it is served with different kinds of ice cream.

See also

Food portal

Pandan waffle, a Vietnamese snack

Æbleskiver, a similar Danish dish

Kuzhi paniyaram, a similar dish from the south of India

Paper wrapped cake, a Hong Kong egg sponge cake

Poffertjes, a similar Dutch dish

Taiyaki

Takoyaki, a similar Japanese dish with savory octopus filling

Imagawayaki

List of quick breads

Wheel Pie

References

^ a b c "Gai daan tsai challenge: The quest for Hong Kong's best egg waffle". CNN Travel. Retrieved 6 January 2014.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link)

^ "Hong Kong — Street's snack review at Kaboodle". Archived from the original on 6 June 2008.

^ "Lost Tastes: Perfect Hong Kong Cakes". Serious Eats. Archived from the original on 6 January 2014. Retrieved 6 January 2014.

^ "香港美食100強 - 每集內容 - 第14集 - 美食排行：第一、二位 - tvb.com". programme.tvb.com. Archived from the original on 3 March 2016. Retrieved 26 April 2018.

^ Kissell, Joe (29 November 2006). "Eggettes". The Geeky Gourmet. Archived from the original on 8 June 2016.

^ "Hong Kong Cakes". Gothamist.com. 3 September 2006. Archived from the original on 20 April 2008.

^ a b "Who invented the Hong Kong egg puff? | HK Magazine". Archived from the original on 8 August 2016. Retrieved 8 August 2016.

^ "【澳門美食】雞蛋仔前身？ 75年老字號澤賢記重開賣葡撻蛋球仔". appledaily.com. Archived from the original on 7 March 2019. Retrieved 1 March 2019.

^ "【雞蛋仔透視 】三毫子變七百蚊". appledaily.com. Archived from the original on 27 October 2022. Retrieved 1 March 2019.

^ Maggie Hiufu Wong (31 July 2020). "Bubble waffles: The uniquely Hong Kong snack that's popping up around the world". CNN. Archived from the original on 31 July 2020. Retrieved 2 August 2020.

^ "香港獨有！雞蛋仔新舊滋味任你揀". jessicahk.com. 13 April 2016. Archived from the original on 13 September 2017. Retrieved 26 April 2018.

^ mabellui. "Egg Waffles, Reinvented". afoodieworld.com. Archived from the original on 13 September 2017. Retrieved 26 April 2018.

Further reading

Connelly, Michael Alan (18 December 2014). "20 Must-Try Street Foods Around the World". Fodor's. Retrieved 24 July 2016.

External links

Gai daan tsai challenge: The quest for Hong Kong's best egg waffle

Almond biscuit

Almond jelly

Baked pork chop rice

Bakkwa

Banana roll

Bao yu

Beef ball

Beef bun

Beef chow fun

Bird's nest soup

Biscuit roll

Buddha's delight

Cart noodle

Cha siu bao

Char siu

Chinese herb tea

Chinese sausage

Cocktail bun

Coconut bar

Congee

Cream bun

Crispy fried chicken

Deuk Deuk Tong

Dim sum

Douhua

Dried shredded squid

Egg tart

Egg waffle

Fish ball

Fishcake

Flame on the iceberg

Got fan

Ham and egg bun

Haw flakes

Honey walnut shrimp

Hong Kong-style milk tea

Hot pot

Jin deui

Kai-lan

Lai fun

Lo mai chi

Mango pomelo sago

Mango pudding

Ox-tongue pastry

Paper wrapped cake

Peanut butter bun

Pineapple bun

Poon choi

Put chai ko

Rapeseed

Red bean ice

Rice noodle roll

Roast goose

Roasted pig

Rousong

Saang mein

Sausage bun

Sea cucumber

Seafood birdsnest

Shahe fen

Singapore style noodles

Siu mei

Steamed meatball

Shrimp roe noodles

Shumai

Sorrowful Rice

Stinky tofu

Sweetheart cake

Swiss wing

Tang bu shuai

Taro cake

Taro dumpling

Tea egg

Tofu skin roll

Water caltrop

Water chestnut cake

White boiled shrimp

White cut chicken

White sugar sponge cake

Wonton

Wonton noodle

XO sauce

Yeung Chow fried rice

Yi mein

Yin yang fried rice

Yuenyeung

Zha cai

Zhaliang

The Banquet (1991)

Shogun and Little Kitchen (1992)

The Chinese Feast (1995)

The God of Cookery (1996)

Osaka Wrestling Restaurant (2004)

Kung Fu Chefs (2009)

Magic Chef (2005)

Hong Kong tea culture

Siu yeh

One bowl with two pieces

Private kitchens

Yum cha

Cha chaan teng

Dai pai dong

Beijing cuisine

Cantonese cuisine

Shanghai cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Belgian waffle

Chicken and waffles Chick'nCone Roscoe's House of Chicken 'N Waffles

Chick'nCone

Roscoe's House of Chicken 'N Waffles

Cornelius Swartwout

Egg waffle

Hash House a go go

Krumkake

Lacquemant waffles

Moffle

Pizzelle

Potato waffle

Stroopwafel

Sunbeam CG

Waffle Crisp

Waffle Day

Waffle House

Waffle iron

Frank Dorsa

Polly Waffle

Food portal

Category:Waffles

List of pancakes

Æbleskiver

Åland pancake

Apam balik

Appam (Pesaha Appam)

Baghrir

Bánh xèo

Bannock

Bein mont

Benne dose

Blodplättar

Borlengo

Boûkète

Buchimgae Bindae-tteok Kimchi-buchimgae Memil-buchimgae Pajeon

Bindae-tteok

Kimchi-buchimgae

Memil-buchimgae

Pajeon

Buckwheat pancake Blini Kaletez Memil-buchimgae

Kaletez

Memil-buchimgae

Cachapa

Chalbori-ppang

Chataamari

Cholermus

Clătită

Crempog

Crêpe Crêpe bretonne Crêpe Suzette Palatschinken

Crêpe bretonne

Crêpe Suzette

Palatschinken

Crumpet

Dadar gulung

Danbing

David Eyre's

Dorayaki

Dutch baby

Egg waffle

Farinata

Flädle

Fläskpannkaka

Funkaso

Galette

Gundel

Gyabrag

Hirayachi

Hortobágyi palacsinta

Hotteok

Injera

Jemput-jemput

Johnnycake

Kaiserschmarrn

Kalathappam

Khanom bueang

Khanom Tokyo

Khauk mont

Kouign-amann

Laklak

Laobing

Malawax

Malpua

Memela

Memil-buchimgae

Milcao

Mofletta

Moon shrimp cake

Murtabak

Neer dosa

Staffordshire oatcake

Okonomiyaki

Oladyi

Oyster omelette

Pannenkoek

Pannukakku

Panyalam

Pathiri

Pek nga

Pesarattu

Poffertjes

Ponganalu

Potato

Quarkkäulchen

Qatayef

Racuchy

Roti canai Roti prata

Roti prata

Roti jala

Roti tissue

Salukara

Serabi

Spring

Suncake

Surnoli

Swedish pancake

Syrniki

Thalipeeth

Tlacoyo

Touton

Uttapam

Wheel Pie

Arrowhead Mills

Pearl Milling

Bisquick

Bob's Red Mill

Boulder Brands

Bruce's

Cherrybrook Kitchen

Crispy Pancakes

Dr. Oetker

Hungry Jack

Jack & Jason's Pancakes & Waffles

Jiffy mix

King Arthur Baking

Mrs. Butterworth's

Ralcorp

Streit's

Biscuit

Pancake art

Pancake breakfast

Pancake machine

Pancake pen

Food portal

Category

Commons

Cookbook

Food portal

# Japanese cuisine


Japanese cuisine encompasses the regional and traditional foods of Japan, which have developed through centuries of political, economic, and social changes. The traditional cuisine of Japan (Japanese: washoku) is based on rice with miso soup and other dishes with an emphasis on seasonal ingredients. Side dishes often consist of fish, pickled vegetables, tamagoyaki, and vegetables cooked in broth. Common seafood is often grilled, but it is also sometimes served raw as sashimi or as sushi. Seafood and vegetables are also deep-fried in a light batter, as tempura. Apart from rice, a staple includes noodles, such as soba and udon. Japan also has many simmered dishes, such as fish products in broth called oden, or beef in sukiyaki and nikujaga.

Historically influenced by Chinese cuisine, Japanese cuisine has also opened up to influence from Western cuisines in the modern era. Dishes inspired by foreign food—in particular Chinese food—like ramen and gyōza, as well as foods like spaghetti, curry and hamburgers, have been adapted to Japanese tastes and ingredients. Traditionally, the Japanese shunned meat as a result of adherence to Buddhism, but with the modernization of Japan in the 1880s, meat-based dishes such as tonkatsu and yakiniku have become common. Since this time, Japanese cuisine, particularly sushi and ramen, has become popular globally.

In 2011, Japan overtook France to become the country with the most 3-starred Michelin restaurants; as of 2018[update], the capital of Tokyo has maintained the title of the city with the most 3-starred restaurants in the world. In 2013, Japanese cuisine was added to the UNESCO Intangible Heritage List.

History

Rice is a staple in Japanese cuisine. Wheat and soybeans were introduced shortly after rice. All three act as staple foods in Japanese cuisine today. At the end of the Kofun period and beginning of the Asuka period, Buddhism became the official religion of the country. Therefore, eating meat and fish was prohibited. In 675 AD, Emperor Tenmu prohibited the eating of horses, dogs, monkeys, and chickens. In the 8th and 9th centuries, many emperors continued to prohibit killing many types of animals. However, meat continued to be eaten in some areas. In Kagoshima, pig farming flourished, and in Oumi, there was a culture of eating beef. In addition, in the Suwa region, there was a ritual of deer sacrifice for Shinto rituals. The number of regulated meats increased significantly, leading to the banning of all mammals except whale, which were categorized as fish. During the Asuka period, chopsticks were introduced to Japan. Initially, they were used only by the nobility. The general population used their hands, as utensils were quite expensive.

Due to the lack of meat products, Japanese people minimized spice utilization. Spices were rare to find at the time. Spices, like pepper and garlic, were used only in a minimalist amount. Spices widely used in Japan were sansho and black pepper. They were often used in noodle, white rice, and fish dishes. They were also used as a nourishing medicine. In the absence of meat, fish was served as the main protein, as Japan is an island nation. Fish has influenced many iconic Japanese dishes today. In the 9th century, grilled fish and sliced raw fish were widely popular. Japanese people who could afford it would eat fish at every meal; others would have to make do without animal protein for many of their meals. In traditional Japanese cuisine, oil and fat are usually avoided during the cooking process in order to maintain a healthy lifestyle.

Preserving fish became a sensation and sushi originated as a means of preserving fish by fermenting it in boiled rice. Fish that are salted and then placed in rice are preserved by lactic acid fermentation, which helps prevent the proliferation of the bacteria that bring about putrefaction. During the 15th century, advancement and development helped shorten the fermentation of sushi to about one to two weeks. Sushi thus became popular both as a main meal and as a snack food, combining fish with rice. During the late Edo period (early 19th century), sushi without fermentation was introduced. Sushi was still being consumed with and without fermentation till the 19th century when the hand-rolled and nigiri-type sushi was invented.

In 1854, Japan started to enter new trade deals with Western countries. The concept of washoku (Japanese cuisine) was introduced in Japan following negotiations with the United States on a trade treaty. When Emperor Meiji took power in 1868 as part of the Meiji Restoration, the government began to adopt Western customs, including the use of animal products in food. The new ruler staged a New Year's feast designed to embrace the Western world and countries in 1872. The feast contained food that reflected European cuisine. For the first time in a thousand years, people were allowed to consume meat in public, and the general population started to include meat in their regular diets.

Culture

Terminology

The word washoku (和食) is now the common word for traditional Japanese cooking. The term kappō [ja] (割烹; lit. "cutting and boiling (meats)") is synonymous with "cooking", but became a reference to mostly Japanese cooking, or restaurants, and was much used in the Meiji and Taishō eras. It has come to connote a certain standard, perhaps even of the highest caliber, a restaurant with the most highly trained chefs. However, kappō is generally seen as an eating establishment which is slightly more casual or informal compared to the kaiseki.

The kaiseki (懐石, lit. "warming stone") is tied with the Japanese tea ceremony. The kaiseki is considered a (simplified) form of honzen-ryōri (本膳料理, lit. "main tray cooking"), which was formal banquet dining where several trays of food were served. The homophone term kaiseki ryōri (会席料理, lit. "gathering + seating") originally referred to a gathering of composers of haiku or renga, and the simplified version of the honzen dishes served at the poem parties became kaiseki ryōri. However, the meaning of kaiseki ryōri degenerated to become just another term for a sumptuous carousing banquet, or shuen (酒宴).

Traditional table settings

The traditional Japanese table setting has varied considerably over the centuries, depending primarily on the type of table common during a given era. Before the 19th century, small individual box tables (hakozen, 箱膳) or flat floor trays were set before each diner. Larger low tables (chabudai, ちゃぶ台) that accommodated entire families were gaining popularity by the beginning of the 20th century, but these gave way to Western-style dining tables and chairs by the end of the 20th century.

The traditional Japanese table setting is to place a bowl of rice on the diner's left and to place a bowl of miso soup on the diner's right side at the table. Behind these, each okazu is served on its own individual plate. Based on the standard three-okazu formula, behind the rice and soup are three flat plates to hold the three okazu; one to far back left, one at far back right, and one in the center. Pickled vegetables are often served on the side but are not counted as part of the three okazu. Chopsticks are generally placed at the very front of the tray near the diner with pointed ends facing left and supported by a chopstick rest, or hashioki.

Dining etiquette

Many restaurants and homes in Japan are equipped with Western-style chairs and tables. However, traditional Japanese low tables and cushions, usually found on tatami floors, are also very common. Tatami mats, which are made of straw, can be easily damaged and are hard to clean, thus shoes or any type of footwear are always taken off when stepping on tatami floors.

When dining in a traditional tatami room, sitting upright on the floor is common. In a casual setting, men usually sit with their feet crossed and women sit with both legs to one side. Only men are supposed to sit cross-legged. The formal way of sitting for both sexes is a kneeling style known as seiza. To sit in a seiza position, one kneels on the floor with legs folded under the thighs and the buttocks resting on the heels.

When dining out in a restaurant, the customers are guided to their seats by the host. The honored or eldest guest will usually be seated at the center of the table farthest from the entrance. In the home, the most important guest is also seated farthest away from the entrance. If there is a tokonoma, or alcove, in the room, the guest is seated in front of it. The host sits next to or closest to the entrance.

In Japan, it is customary to say itadakimasu ("I [humbly] receive") before starting to eat a meal. When saying itadakimasu, both hands are put together in front of the chest or on the lap. Itadakimasu is preceded by complimenting the appearance of food. Another customary and important etiquette is to say go-chisō-sama deshita ("It was a feast") to the host after the meal and the restaurant staff when leaving.

Traditional cuisine

Japanese cuisine is based on combining the staple food, which is steamed white rice or gohan (御飯), with one or more okazu (おかず), "main" or "side" dishes. This may be accompanied by a clear or miso soup and tsukemono (pickles). The phrase ichijū-sansai (一汁三菜, "one soup, three sides") refers to the makeup of a typical meal served but has roots in classic kaiseki, honzen, and yūshoku cuisine. The term is also used to describe the first course served in standard kaiseki cuisine nowadays.

The origin of Japanese "one soup, three sides" cuisine is a dietary style called Ichiju-Issai (一汁一菜, "one soup, one dish"), tracing back to the Five Great Zen Temples of the 12-century Kamakura period (Kamakura Gozan), developed as a form of meal that emphasized frugality and simplicity.

Rice is served in its own small bowl (chawan), and each main course item is placed on its own small plate (sara) or bowl (hachi) for each individual portion. This is done even in Japanese homes. This contrasts with Western-style home dinners in which each individual takes helpings from large serving dishes of food placed in the middle of the dining table. Japanese style traditionally abhors different flavored dishes touching each other on a single plate, so different dishes are given their own individual plates as mentioned or are partitioned using, for example, leaves. Placing main dishes on top of rice, thereby "soiling" it, is also frowned upon by traditional etiquette.

Although this tradition of not placing other foods on rice originated from classical Chinese dining formalities, especially after the adoption of Buddhist tea ceremonies; it became most popular and common during and after the Kamakura period, such as in the kaiseki (懐石). Although present-day Chinese cuisine has abandoned this practice, Japanese cuisine retains it. One exception is the popular donburi, in which toppings are directly served on rice.

The small rice bowl (茶碗, chawan), literally "tea bowl", doubles as a word for the large tea bowls in tea ceremonies. Thus in common speech, the drinking cup is referred to as yunomi-jawan or yunomi for the purpose of distinction. Among the nobility, each course of a full-course Japanese meal would be brought on serving napkins called zen (膳), which were originally platformed trays or small dining tables. In the modern age, faldstool trays or stackup-type legged trays may still be seen used in zashiki (座敷), i.e. tatami-mat rooms, for large banquets or at a ryokan type inn. Some restaurants might use the suffix -zen (膳) as a more sophisticated though dated synonym to the more familiar teishoku (定食), since the latter basically is a term for a combo meal served at a taishū-shokudō, akin to a diner. Teishoku means a meal of fixed menu (for example, grilled fish with rice and soup), a dinner à prix fixe served at shokudō (食堂, "dining hall") or ryōriten (料理店, "restaurant"), which is somewhat vague (shokudō can mean a diner-type restaurant or a corporate lunch hall); writer on Japanese popular culture Ishikawa Hiroyoshi defines it as fare served at teishoku dining halls (定食食堂, teishoku-shokudō), and comparable diner-like establishments.

Seasonality

Emphasis is placed on seasonality of food or shun (旬), and dishes are designed to herald the arrival of the four seasons or calendar months.

Seasonality means taking advantage of the "fruit of the mountains" (山の幸, yama no sachi; alt. "bounty of the mountains") (for example, bamboo shoots in spring, chestnuts in the autumn) as well as the "fruit of the sea" (海の幸, umi no sachi; alt. "bounty of the sea") as they come into season. Thus the first catch of skipjack tunas (初鰹, hatsu-gatsuo) that arrives with the Kuroshio Current has traditionally been greatly prized.

If something becomes available rather earlier than what is usual for the item in question, the first crop or early catch is called hashiri.

Use of tree leaves and branches as decor is also characteristic of Japanese cuisine. Maple leaves are often floated on water to exude coolness or ryō (涼); sprigs of nandina are popularly used. The haran (Aspidistra) and sasa bamboo leaves were often cut into shapes and placed underneath or used as separators.

UNESCO recognition

In February 2012, the Agency for Cultural Affairs recommended that 'Washoku (和食) : Traditional Dietary Cultures of the Japanese' be added to the UNESCO Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. On December 4, 2013, "Washoku, traditional dietary cultures [sic] of the Japanese, notably for the celebration of New Year" was added to UNESCO's Intangible Cultural Heritage, bringing the number of Japanese assets listed on UNESCO's Intangible Cultural Heritage list to 22.

Traditional ingredients

A characteristic of traditional Japanese food is the sparing use of red meat, oils and fats, and dairy products. Use of ingredients such as soy sauce, miso, and umeboshi tends to result in dishes with high salt content, though there are low-sodium versions of these available.

Meat consumption

As Japan is an island nation surrounded by an ocean, its people have always taken advantage of the abundant seafood supply. It is the opinion of some food scholars that the Japanese diet always relied mainly on "grains with vegetables or seaweeds as main, with poultry secondary, and red meat in slight amounts" even before the advent of Buddhism which placed an even stronger taboo. The eating of "four-legged creatures" (四足, yotsuashi) was spoken of as taboo, unclean or something to be avoided by personal choice through the Edo period. The consumption of whale and terrapin meat were not forbidden under this definition. Despite this, the consumption of red meat did not completely disappear in Japan. Eating wild game—as opposed to domesticated livestock—was tolerated; in particular, trapped hare was counted using the measure word wa (羽), a term normally reserved for birds.

In 1872 of the Meiji restoration, as part of the opening up of Japan to Western influence, Emperor Meiji lifted the ban on the consumption of red meat. The removal of the ban encountered resistance and in one notable response, ten monks attempted to break into the Imperial Palace. The monks asserted that due to foreign influence, large numbers of Japanese had begun eating meat and that this was "destroying the soul of the Japanese people." Several of the monks were killed during the break-in attempt, and the remainder were arrested. On the other hand, the consumption of meat was accepted by the common people. Gyūnabe (牛鍋, beef hot pot), the prototype of sukiyaki, became the rage of the time. Western restaurants moved in, and some of them changed their form to Yōshoku (洋食, western foods).

Vegetable consumption has dwindled while processed foods have become more prominent in Japanese households due to the rising costs of general foodstuffs. Nonetheless, Kyoto vegetables, or Kyoyasai, are rising in popularity and different varieties of Kyoto vegetables are being revived.

Cooking oil

Generally speaking, traditional Japanese cuisine is prepared with little cooking oil. A major exception is the deep-frying of foods. This cooking method was introduced during the Edo period due to influence from Western (formerly called nanban-ryōri (南蛮料理)) and Chinese cuisine, and became commonplace with the availability of cooking oil due to increased productivity. Dishes such as tempura, aburaage, and satsuma age are now part of established traditional Japanese cuisine. Words such as tempura or hiryōzu (synonymous with ganmodoki) are said to be of Portuguese origin.

Also, certain rustic sorts of traditional Japanese foods such as kinpira, hijiki, and kiriboshi daikon usually involve stir-frying in oil before stewing in soy sauce. Some standard osōzai or obanzai dishes feature stir-fried Japanese greens with either age or chirimen-jako [ja], dried sardines.

Seasonings

Traditional Japanese food is typically seasoned with a combination of dashi, soy sauce, sake and mirin, vinegar, sugar, and salt. A modest number of herbs and spices may be used during cooking as a hint or accent, or as a means of neutralizing fishy or gamy odors present. Examples of such spices include ginger, perilla and takanotsume [ja] (鷹の爪) red pepper.

Intense condiments, such as wasabi or Japanese mustard, are provided as condiments to raw fish, due to their effect on the mucous membrane which paralyze the sense of smell, particularly from fish odors. A sprig of mitsuba or a piece of yuzu rind floated on soups are called ukimi. Minced shiso leaves and myoga often serve as yakumi, a type of condiment paired with tataki of katsuo or soba. Shichimi is also a very popular spice mixture often added to soups, noodles and rice cakes. Shichimi is a chilli-based spice mix which contains seven spices: chilli, sansho, orange peel, black sesame, white sesame, hemp, ginger, and nori.

Garnishes

Once a main dish has been cooked, spices such as minced ginger and various pungent herbs may be added as a garnish, called tsuma. Finally, a dish may be garnished with minced seaweed in the form of crumpled nori or flakes of aonori.[citation needed]

Inedible garnishes are featured in dishes to reflect a holiday or the season. Generally these include inedible leaves, flowers native to Japan or with a long history of being grown in the country, as well as their artificial counterparts.

Salads

The o-hitashi or hitashi-mono (おひたし) is boiled green-leaf vegetables bunched and cut to size, steeped in dashi broth, eaten with dashes of soy sauce. Another item is sunomono (酢の物; "vinegar item"), which could be made with wakame seaweed, or be something like a kōhaku namasu (紅白なます; "red white namasu") made from thin toothpick slices of daikon and carrot. The so-called vinegar that is blended with the ingredient here is often sanbaizu [ja] (三杯酢; "three cupful/spoonful vinegar") which is a blend of vinegar, mirin, and soy sauce. A tosazu [ja] (土佐酢; "Tosa vinegar") adds katsuo dashi to this.

An aemono [ja] (和え物) is another group of items, describable as a sort of "tossed salad" or "dressed" (though aemono also includes thin strips of squid or fish sashimi (itozukuri) etc. similarly prepared). One type is goma-ae (胡麻和え) where usually vegetables such as green beans are tossed with white or black sesame seeds ground in a suribachi mortar bowl, flavored additionally with sugar and soy sauce. Shira-ae (白和え) adds tofu (bean curd) in the mix. An aemono is tossed with vinegar-white miso mix and uses wakegi scallion and baka-gai (バカガイ / 馬鹿貝; a trough shell, Mactra chinensis) as standard.

Japanese egg dishes include tamagoyaki, onsen tamago, tamago-dōfu (jp) and chawanmushi. Datemaki is eaten during the New Year holidays.

Well-known rice dishes with eggs include oyakodon, omurice and tamago kake gohan that is simply raw egg on rice.

Rice has historically been the staple food of the Japanese people. Its fundamental importance is evident from the fact that the word for cooked rice, gohan or meshi, also stands for a "meal". While rice has an ancient history of cultivation in Japan, its use as a staple has not been universal. Notably, in northern areas (northern Honshū and Hokkaidō), other grains such as wheat were more common into the 19th century.

In most of Japan, rice used to be consumed for almost every meal, and although a 2007 survey showed that 70% of Japanese still eat it once or twice a day, its popularity is now declining. In the 20th century there has been a shift in dietary habits, with an increasing number of people choosing wheat-based products (such as bread and noodles) over rice.

Japanese rice is short-grained and becomes sticky when cooked. Most rice is sold as hakumai (白米, "white rice"), with the outer portion of the grains (糠, nuka) polished away. Unpolished brown rice (玄米, genmai) is considered less desirable, but its popularity has been increasing.

Noodles

Japanese noodles often substitute for a rice-based meal. Soba (thin, grayish-brown noodles containing buckwheat flour) and udon (thick wheat noodles) are the main traditional noodles, while ramen is a modern import and now very popular. There are also other, common noodles, such as somen (thin, white noodles containing wheat flour). Cold somen noodles are often eaten during the hot summer. Hiyashi chūka are also popular noodles in the summer.

Japanese noodles, such as soba and udon, are eaten as a standalone, and usually not with a side dish, in terms of general custom. It may have toppings, but they are called gu (具). The fried battered shrimp tempura sitting in a bowl of tempura-soba would be referred to as "the shrimp" or "the tempura", and not so much be referred to as a topping (gu). The identical toppings, if served as a dish to be eaten with plain white rice could be called okazu, so these terms are context-sensitive. Some noodle dishes derive their name from Japanese folklore, such as kitsune and tanuki, reflecting dishes in which the noodles can be changed, but the broth and garnishes correspond to their respective legend.

Hot noodles are usually served in a bowl already steeped in their broth and are called kakesoba or kakeudon. Cold soba arrive unseasoned and heaped atop a zaru or seiro, and are picked up with a chopstick and dunked in their dipping sauce. The broth can consist of many ingredients but is generally based on dashi; the sauce, called tsuyu, is usually more concentrated and made from soy sauce, dashi and mirin, sake or both.

In the simple form, yakumi (薬味, condiments and spices) such as shichimi, nori, finely chopped scallions, wasabi, etc. are added to the noodles, besides the broth/dip sauce.

Udon may also be eaten in kama-age style, piping hot straight out of the boiling pot, and eaten with plain soy sauce and sometimes with raw egg also.

Japanese noodles are traditionally eaten by bringing the bowl close to the mouth, and sucking in the noodles with the aid of chopsticks. The resulting loud slurping noise is considered normal in Japan, although in the 2010s concerns began to be voiced about the slurping being offensive to others, especially tourists. The word nuuhara (ヌーハラ, from "nuudoru harasumento", noodle harassment) was coined to describe this.

Sweets

Traditional Japanese sweets are known as wagashi. Ingredients such as red bean paste and mochi are used. More modern-day tastes includes green tea ice cream, a very popular flavor. Almost all manufacturers produce a version of it. Kakigōri (かき氷) is a shaved ice dessert flavored with syrup or condensed milk. It is usually sold and eaten at summer festivals. A dessert very popular amongst children in Japan is dorayaki. They are sweet pancakes filled with a sweet red bean paste. They are mostly eaten at room temperature but are also considered very delicious hot. Similar sweets to dorayaki include imagawayaki and fish-shaped taiyaki. Sweet breads containing red bean paste, such as anpan and an-doughnut, are also commonly eaten.

Drinks

Green tea may be served with most Japanese dishes. It is produced in Japan and prepared in various forms, such as matcha, the tea used in the Japanese tea ceremony. Barley tea is a favorite drink during the hot summertime.

Soft drink

Japan has a vibrant soft drink culture, with local flavors like ramune, melon soda, canned coffee, Calpis, and the citrusy electrolyte drink Pocari Sweat. Imported drinks garner unique meanings in Japan, for example, Dr Pepper has become associated as an intellectual beverage thanks to the anime Steins;Gate, as well as drinks like A&W Root Beer and their Restaurants having a strong ice cream float presence in Okinawa giving it an association with beach vacations.

Beer production started in Japan in the 1860s. The most commonly consumed beers in Japan are pale-coloured light lagers, with an alcohol strength of around 5.0% ABV. Lager beers are the most commonly produced beer style in Japan, but beer-like beverages, made with lower levels of malts called Happoshu (発泡酒, literally, "bubbly alcohol") or non-malt Happousei (発泡性, literally "effervescence") have captured a large part of the market as tax is substantially lower on these products. Beer and its varieties have a market share of almost 2/3 of alcoholic beverages.

Small local microbreweries have also gained increasing popularity since the 1990s, supplying distinct tasting beers in a variety of styles that seek to match the emphasis on craftsmanship, quality, and ingredient provenance often associated with Japanese food.

Sake is a brewed rice beverage that typically contains 15–17% alcohol and is made by multiple fermentation of rice. At traditional formal meals, it is considered an equivalent to rice and is not simultaneously taken with other rice-based dishes, although this notion is typically no longer applied to modern, refined, premium ("ginjo") sake, which bear little resemblance to the sakes of even 100 years ago. Side dishes for sake are particularly called sakana or otsumami.

Sake is brewed in a highly labor-intensive process more similar to beer production than winemaking, hence, the common description of sake as rice "wine" is misleading. Sake is made with, by legal definition, strictly just four ingredients: special rice, water, koji, and special yeast.

As of 2014, Japan had some 1500 registered breweries, which produce thousands of different sakes. Sake characteristics and flavor profiles vary with regionality, ingredients, and the styles (maintained by brewmaster guilds) that brewery leaders want to produce.

Sake flavor profiles lend extremely well to pairing with a wide variety of cuisines, including non-Japanese cuisines.

Shōchū

Shōchū is a distilled spirit that is typically made from barley, sweet potato, buckwheat, or rice. Shōchū is produced everywhere in Japan, but its production started in Kyushu.

Whisky

Japanese whisky began commercial production in the early 20th century, and is now extremely popular, primarily consumed in highballs (ハイボール, haibōru). It is produced in the Scottish style, with malt whisky produced since the 1980s, and has won top international awards since the 2000s.

A domestic wine production has existed since the 1860s, yet most wine is imported. The total market share of wine on alcoholic beverages is about 3%.

Specialty food

Wagyu is the collective name for the four principal Japanese breeds of beef cattle. All wagyū cattle derive from cross-breeding in the early twentieth century of native Japanese cattle with imported stock, mostly from Europe. In several areas of Japan, Wagyu beef is shipped carrying area names. Some examples are Matsusaka beef, Kobe beef, Yonezawa beef, Ōmi beef, and Sanda beef. In recent years, Wagyu beef has increased in fat percentage due to a decrease in grazing and an increase in using feed, resulting in larger, fattier cattle.

Specialty eggs—compared to ordinary eggs, eggs produced with special feed and poultry-raising.

The Yubari King (夕張メロン, Yūbari Meron; Yūbari melon) is a cantaloupe cultivar farmed in greenhouses in Yūbari, Hokkaido, a small city close to Sapporo.

Square or cube watermelons are watermelons grown into the shape of a cube. Cube watermelons are commonly sold in Japan, where they are essentially ornamental and are often very expensive, with prices as high as US$200.

Cooking techniques

Different cooking techniques are applied to each of the three okazu; they may be raw (sashimi), grilled, simmered (sometimes called boiled), steamed, deep-fried, vinegared, or dressed.

Dishes

In ichijū-sansai (一汁三菜, "one soup, three sides"), the word sai (菜) has the basic meaning of "vegetable", but secondarily means any accompanying dish (whether it uses fish or meat), with the more familiar combined form sōzai [ja] (惣菜), which is a term for any side dish, such as the vast selections sold at Japanese supermarkets or depachikas [ja].

It figures in the Japanese word for appetizer, zensai (前菜); main dish, shusai (主菜); or sōzai (惣菜) (formal synonym for okazu), but the latter is considered somewhat of a ladies' term or nyōbō kotoba.

Below are listed some of the most common categories for prepared food:

Yakimono (焼き物), grilled and pan-fried dishes

Nimono (煮物), stewed/simmered/cooked/boiled dishes

Itamemono (炒め物), stir-fried dishes

Mushimono (蒸し物), steamed dishes

Agemono (揚げ物), deep-fried dishes

Sashimi (刺身), sliced raw fish

Suimono (吸い物) and shirumono (汁物), soups

Tsukemono (漬け物), pickled/salted vegetables

Aemono (和え物), dishes dressed with various kinds of sauce

Sunomono (酢の物), vinegared dishes

Chinmi (珍味), delicacies

Classification

Kaiseki

Kaiseki, closely associated with tea ceremony (chanoyu), is a high form of hospitality through cuisine. The style is minimalist, extolling the aesthetics of wabi-sabi. Like the tea ceremony, appreciation of the diningware and vessels is part of the experience. In the modern standard form, the first course consists of ichijū-sansai (one soup, three dishes), followed by the serving of sake accompanied by dish(es) plated on a square wooden bordered tray of sorts called hassun (八寸). Sometimes another element called shiizakana (強肴) is served to complement the sake, for guests who are heavier drinkers.

Vegetarian

Strictly vegetarian food is rare since even vegetable dishes are flavored with the ubiquitous dashi stock, usually made with katsuobushi (dried skipjack tuna flakes), and are therefore pescetarian more often than carnivorous. An exception is shōjin-ryōri (精進料理), vegetarian dishes developed by Buddhist monks. However, the advertised shōjin-ryōri at public eating places includes some non-vegetarian elements. Vegetarianism, fucha-ryōri [ja] (普茶料理) was introduced from China by the Ōbaku sect (a sub-sect of Zen Buddhism), and which some sources still regard as part of "Japanese cuisine". The sect in Japan was founded by the priest Ingen (d. 1673), and is headquartered in Uji, Kyoto. The Japanese name for the common green bean takes after this priest who allegedly introduced the New World crop via China. One aspect of the fucha-ryōri practiced at the temple is the wealth of modoki-ryōri (もどき料理, "mock foods"), one example being mock-eel, made from strained tofu, with nori seaweed used expertly to mimic the black skin. The secret ingredient used is grated gobō (burdock) roots.

Masakazu Tada, Honorary Vice-President of the International Vegetarian Union for 25 years from 1960, stated that "Japan was vegetarian for 1,000 years". The taboo against eating meat was lifted in 1872 by the Meiji Emperor as part of an effort towards westernizing Japan. British journalist J. W. Robertson Scott reported in the 1920s that the society was still 90% vegetarian, and 50–60% of the population ate fish only on festive occasions, probably due to poverty more than for any other reason.

Regional cuisine

Japanese cuisine offers a vast array of regional specialties known as kyōdo-ryōri (郷土料理), many of them originating from dishes prepared using traditional recipes with local ingredients. Foods from the Kantō region taste very strong. For example, the dashi-based broth for serving udon noodles is heavy on dark soy sauce, similar to soba broth. On the other hand, Kansai region foods are lightly seasoned, with clear udon noodles. made with light soy sauce.

Dishes for special occasions

In Japanese tradition, some dishes are strongly tied to a festival or event. These dishes include:

In some regions, on every first and fifteenth day of the month, people eat a mixture of rice and azuki (azuki meshi (小豆飯); see Sekihan).

Imported and adapted foods

Japan has a long history of importing food from other countries, some of which are now part of Japan's most popular cuisine. Ramen is considered an important part to their culinary history, to the extent where in survey of 2,000 Tokyo residents, instant ramen came up many times as a product they thought was an outstanding Japanese invention. Believed to have originated in China, ramen became popular in Japan after the Second Sino-Japanese war (1937–1945), when many Chinese students were displaced to Japan.

Curry is another popular imported dish and is ranked near the top of nearly all Japanese surveys for favorite foods. The origins of curry, as well many other foreign imports such as pan or bread, are linked to the emergence of yōshoku, or western cuisine. Yōshoku can be traced as far back as the late Muromachi period (1336–1573) during a culinary revolution called namban ryori (南蛮料理), which means "Southern barbarian cooking", as it is rooted in European cuisine. This cuisine style was first seen in Nagasaki, which served as the point of contact between Europe and Japan at that point in time. Food items such as potatoes, corn, dairy products, as well as the hard candy kompeito (金平糖), spread during this time. This cuisine became popular in the Meiji era, which is considered by many historians to be when Japan first opened itself to the outside world.

Bread was not a traditional food in Japan, but shokupan, or Japanese milk bread, was developed and came into broad use after the American response to post-World War II Japanese rice shortages included relief shipments of wheat.

Today, many of these imported items still hold a heavy presence in Japan.[citation needed]

Foods imported from Portugal in the 16th century

Other adapted cuisines in Japan

Yōshoku—Foreign (Western) food, dishes

Source: Japan today abounds with home-grown, loosely Western-style food. Many of these were invented in the wake of the 1868 Meiji Restoration and the end of national seclusion, when the sudden influx of foreign (in particular, Western) culture led to many restaurants serving Western food, known as yōshoku (洋食), a shortened form of seiyōshoku (西洋食, "Western cuisine"), opening up in cities. Restaurants that serve these foods are called yōshokuya (洋食屋, "Western cuisine restaurants").

Many yōshoku items from that time have been adapted to a degree that they are now considered Japanese and are an integral part of any Japanese family menu. Many are served alongside rice and miso soup, and eaten with chopsticks. Yet, due to their origins these are still categorized as yōshoku as opposed to the more traditional washoku (和食, "Japanese cuisine").

Chūka ryōri—Japanese Chinese cuisine

Chinese cuisine is one of the oldest and most prominent foreign influences on Japanese cuisine, predating the introduction of Western influences into the country by thousands of years. Many elements of Chinese cuisine have been fully assimilated into Japanese culinary traditions.

A domesticated variety of peach from China appeared in Japan around 4700–4400 BCE, during the Jōmon period. The Yayoi period arrived with immigrants from mainland East Asia introducing rice agriculture and other elements of continental material culture to the Japanese archipelago. The migration of early rice farmers into Japan coincided with a range of sociopolitical transformations occurring in China, beginning with the eastward expansion of the Shang dynasty from 1600 to 1400 BCE. It is believed that rice farming spread to Japan from the Yangtze River Delta to the Shandong peninsula, then to the Liaodong peninsula, and finally to the Korean peninsula, from where it was directly introduced to the Japanese archipelago.

Chopsticks were adopted from China around the latter half of the 7th century, during the Asuka period, with the earliest known examples in Japan discovered at archaeological sites such as Asuka Itabuki-no-miya and Fujiwara-kyo. Tea, soy sauce, tofu, and noodles were borrowed from China in the 8th century, during the Nara period. The Shippoku culinary style of Nagasaki, which originated in the 17th century, reflects strong Chinese influences.

These early elements are generally considered distinct from modern Japanese Chinese cuisine, known as chūka ryōri, which emerged in the 19th century. Iconic dishes of chūka ryōri include ramen, gyoza, and chukaman. In contrast, dishes of Chinese origin such as kakuni and karaage are often regarded as part of washoku, or traditional Japanese cuisine, due to their longstanding integration into Japanese food culture.

Okonomiyaki

Okonomiyaki is a savoury pancake containing a variety of ingredients in a wheat-flour-based batter.

Tonkatsu

Tonkatsu is a breaded, deep-fried pork cutlet. It is frequently served with tonkatsu sauce.

Curry was introduced by Anglo-Indian officers of the Royal Navy from India who brought curry powder to Japan in the Meiji era. The Imperial Japanese Navy adopted curry to prevent beriberi. Overtime it was reinvented and adapted to suit Japanese tastes that it became uniquely Japanese. It is consumed so much that it is considered a national dish. Many recipes are on the menu of the JMSDF. A variety of vegetables and meats are used to make Japanese curry, usually vegetables like onions, carrots, and potatoes. The types of meat used are beef, pork, and chicken. A popular dish is Katsu-karē which is a breaded deep-fried cutlet (tonkatsu; usually pork or chicken) with Japanese curry sauce. Japanese curry can be found in foods such as curry udon, curry bread, and katsukarē, tonkatsu served with curry. It's very commonly made with rice beside the curry on the dish called "curry" (カレー, karē). This can be eaten during dinner.

Wafū burgers (Japanese-style burgers)

Hamburger chains active in Japan include McDonald's, Burger King, First Kitchen, Lotteria and MOS Burger. Many chains developed uniquely Japanese versions of American fast food such as the teriyaki burger, kinpira (sauté) rice burger, fried shrimp burgers, and green tea milkshakes.

Italian

High-class Japanese chefs have preserved many Italian seafood dishes that are forgotten in other countries. These include pasta with prawns, lobster (a specialty known in Italy as pasta all'aragosta), crab (an Italian specialty; in Japan it is served with a different species of crab), and pasta with sea urchin sauce (sea urchin pasta being a specialty of the Puglia region).

Outside Japan

Many countries have imported portions of Japanese cuisine. Some may adhere to the traditional preparations of the cuisines, but in some cultures the dishes have been adapted to fit the palate of the local populace. In 1970s sushi travelled from Japan to Canada and the United States, it was modified to suit the American palate, and re-entered the Japanese market as "American Sushi". An example of this phenomenon is the California roll, which was created in North America in the 1970s, rose in popularity across the United States through the 1980s, and thus sparked Japanese food's—more precisely, sushi's—global popularity.

In 2014, Japanese Restaurant Organization has selected potential countries where Japanese food is becoming increasingly popular, and conducted research concerning the Japanese restaurants abroad. These key nations or region are Taiwan, Hong Kong, China, Singapore, Thailand and Indonesia. This was meant as an effort to promote Japanese cuisine and to expand the market of Japanese ingredients, products and foodstuffs. Numbers of Japanese foodstuff and seasoning brands such as Ajinomoto, Kikkoman, Nissin and Kewpie mayonnaise, are establishing production base in other Asian countries, such as China, Thailand and Indonesia.

Singapore

Japanese cuisine in Singapore began when the first batch of Japanese restaurants opened in the 1960s to cater to Japanese businessmen. As Singaporeans became increasingly well-travelled, local diners started developing a deeper appreciation for Japanese cuisine's subtleties. This led to the transformation of Japanese food in Singapore from a niche expatriate dining scene to a diverse ecosystem of more than 1,000 Japanese restaurants today. [2]

From sushi bars to ramen shops, udon houses, yakiniku, teppanyaki, wagyu beef restaurants and more [3], Singapore offers one of the most comprehensive Japanese dining experiences outside of Japan itself [4]. The Japanese fine dining scene has also flourished, with numerous omakase restaurants gaining recognition, such as Wakuda and the Michelin-starred Waku Ghin.

Australia

Japanese cuisine is very popular in Australia, and Australians are becoming increasingly familiar with traditional Japanese foods. Restaurants serving Japanese cuisine feature prominently in popular rankings, including Gourmet Traveller and The Good Food Guide.

Sushi in particular has been described as being "as popular as sandwiches", particularly in large cities like Melbourne, Sydney, or Brisbane. As such, sushi bars are a mainstay in shopping centre food courts, and are extremely common in cities and towns all over the country.

Brazil

In Brazil, Japanese food is widespread due to the large Japanese-Brazilian population living in the country, which represents the largest Japanese community living outside Japan. Over the past years, many restaurant chains such as Koni Store have opened, selling typical dishes such as the popular temaki. Yakisoba, which is readily available in all supermarkets, and often included in non-Japanese restaurant menus.

Canada

In Canada, Japanese cuisine has become quite popular. Sushi, sashimi, and instant ramen are highly popular at opposite ends of the income scale, with instant ramen being a common low-budget meal. Sushi and sashimi takeout began in Vancouver and Toronto, and is now common throughout Canada. The largest supermarket chains all carry basic sushi and sashimi, and Japanese ingredients and instant ramen are readily available in most supermarkets. Most mid-sized mall food courts feature fast-food teppan cooking. Izakaya restaurants have surged in popularity. Higher-end ramen restaurants (as opposed to instant ramen noodles of variable quality) are increasingly common.

Indonesia

In the ASEAN region, Indonesia is the second largest market for Japanese food, after Thailand. Japanese cuisine has been increasingly popular as a result of the growing Indonesian middle-class expecting higher quality foods. This has also contributed to the fact that Indonesia has large numbers of Japanese expatriates. The main concern is the issue of many traditional Japanese recipes not being halal. As a Muslim majority country, Indonesians expect that Japanese foods served there are halal according to Islamic dietary law, which means no pork or alcohol are allowed. Japanese restaurants in Indonesia often offer a set menu which includes rice served with an array of Japanese favourites in a single setting. A set menu might include a choice of yakiniku or sukiyaki, including a sample of sushi, tempura, gyoza and miso soup. Authentic Japanese style izakaya and ramen shops can be found in the Little Tokyo (Melawai) area in Blok M, South Jakarta, serving both Japanese expats and local clienteles. Today, Japanese restaurants can be found in most major Indonesian cities, with a high concentration in Greater Jakarta area, Bandung, Surabaya and Bali.

In some cases, Japanese cuisine in Indonesia is often altered to suit Indonesian taste. Hoka Hoka Bento in particular is an Indonesian-owned Japanese fast food restaurant chain that caters to the Indonesian clientele. As a result, the foods served there have been adapted to suit Indonesians' taste. Examples of the change include stronger flavours compared to the authentic subtle Japanese taste, the preference for fried food, as well as the addition of sambal to cater to the Indonesians' preference for hot and spicy food.

Japanese food popularity also has penetrated street food culture, as modest Warjep or Warung Jepang (Japanese food stall) offer Japanese food such as tempura, okonomiyaki and takoyaki, at moderately low prices. Today, okonomiyaki and takoyaki are popular street fare in Jakarta and other Indonesian cities. This is also pushed further by the Japanese convenience stores operating in Indonesia, such as 7-Eleven and Lawson offering Japanese favourites such as oden, chicken katsu (deep-fried chicken cutlet), chicken teriyaki and onigiri.

Some chefs in Indonesian sushi establishments have created a Japanese-Indonesian fusion cuisine, such as krakatau roll, gado-gado roll, rendang roll and gulai ramen. The idea of fusion cuisine melding spicy Indonesian Padang and Japanese cuisine was combined because both cuisine traditions are well-liked by Indonesians. Nevertheless, some of these Japanese eating establishments might strive to serve authentic Japanese cuisine abroad. Numbers of Japanese chain restaurants has established their business in Indonesia, such as Yoshinoya gyūdon restaurant chain, Gyu-Kaku yakiniku restaurant chain and Ajisen Ramen restaurant chain.

Mexico

In Mexico, certain Japanese restaurants have created what is known as "sushi Mexicano", in which spicy sauces and ingredients accompany the dish or are integrated in sushi rolls. The habanero and serrano chiles have become nearly standard and are referred to as chiles toreados, as they are fried, diced and tossed over a dish upon request.

Philippines

In the Philippines, Japanese cuisine is also popular among the local population. The Philippines have been exposed to the influences from the Japanese, Indian and Chinese. The cities of Davao and Metro Manila probably have the most Japanese influence in the country. The popular dining spots for Japanese nationals are located in Makati, which is called as "Little Tokyo", a small area filled with restaurants specializing in different types of Japanese food. Some of the best Japanese no-frills restaurants in the Philippines can be found in Makati's "Little Tokyo" area. In the Philippines, Halo-halo is derived from Japanese Kakigori. Halo-halo is believed to be an indigenized version of the Japanese kakigori class of desserts, originating from pre-war Japanese migrants into the islands. The earliest versions were composed only of cooked red beans or mung beans in crushed ice with sugar and milk, a dessert known locally as "mongo-ya". Over the years, more native ingredients were added, resulting in the development of the modern halo-halo. Some authors specifically attribute it to the 1920s or 1930s Japanese migrants in the Quinta Market of Quiapo, Manila, due to its proximity to the now defunct Insular Ice Plant, which was the source of the city's ice supply. In Cebu City, the Little Kyoto district let's you experience the feel of being in Kyoto, Japan with a statue of the reclining Buddha overlooking the city. The Little Kyoto district also features Japanese food stalls serving various Japanese dishes like Takoyaki, Tempura, and various other Japanese cuisine that is enjoyed by the people of Cebu City, Philippines. Odong, also called pancit odong, is a Visayan noodle soup made with odong noodles, canned smoked sardines (tinapa) in tomato sauce, bottle gourd (upo), loofah (patola), chayote, ginger, garlic, red onions, and various other vegetables. It is garnished and spiced with black pepper, scallions, toasted garlic, calamansi, or labuyo chilis. The dish is usually prepared as a soup, but it can also be cooked with minimal water, in which case, it is known as odong guisado.

It is a common simple and cheap meal in Mindanao (particularly the Davao Region) and the Visayas Islands. It is almost always eaten with white rice, rarely on its own.

It is named after the round flour noodles called odong which are closest in texture and taste to the Okinawa soba. These noodles are characteristically sold dried into straight sticks around 6 to 8 in (15 to 20 cm) long. The name is derived from the Japanese udon noodles, although it does not use udon noodles or bear any resemblance to udon dishes. It originates from the Davao Region of Mindanao which had a large Japanese migrant community in the early 1900s. The odong noodles were previously locally manufactured by Okinawans, but modern odong noodles (which are distinctly yellowish) are imported from China. Because odong noodles are difficult to find in other regions, they can be substituted with other types of noodles; including misua, miki (egg noodles), udon, and even instant noodles.

Taiwan

Japan and Taiwan have shared close historical and cultural relations. Dishes such as sushi, ramen, and donburi are very popular among locals. Japanese chain restaurants such as Coco Ichibanya, Ippudo, Kura Sushi, Marugame Seimen, Mister Donut, MOS Burger, Ootoya, Ramen Kagetsu Arashi, Saizeriya, Sukiya, Sushiro, Tonkatsu Shinjuku Saboten, Yayoi Ken, and Yoshinoya, can all be found in Taiwan, among others. Taiwan has adapted many Japanese food items. Tianbula ("Taiwanese tempura") is actually satsuma-age and was introduced to Taiwan during Japanese rule by people from Kyushu, where the word tempura is commonly used to refer to satsuma-age. It is popular as a night market snack and as an ingredient for oden, hot pot and lu wei. Taiwanese versions of oden are sold locally as olen or, more recently, as guandongzhu (from Japanese Kantō-ni) in convenience stores.

Thailand

In Southeast Asia, Thailand is the largest market for Japanese food. This is partly because Thailand is a popular tourist destination, having large numbers of Japanese expatriates, as well as the local population having developed a taste for authentic Japanese cuisine. According to the Organisation that Promote Japanese Restaurants Abroad (JRO), the number of Japanese restaurants in Thailand jumped about 2.2-fold from 2007's figures to 1,676 in June 2012. In Bangkok, Japanese restaurants accounts for 8.3 percent of all restaurants, following those that serve Thai. Numbers of Japanese chain restaurants has established their business in Thailand, such as Yoshinoya gyūdon restaurant chain, Gyu-Kaku yakiniku restaurant chain and Kourakuen ramen restaurant chain.

United Kingdom

Japanese food Inspired restaurant chains in the UK include Wagamama, YO! Sushi, Nudo Sushi Box, Wasabi, Bone Daddies and Kokoro, often localising the food and mixing in other ingredients originating from Southeast Asia and India.

United States

The California roll has been influential in sushi's global popularity; its invention often credited to a Japanese-born chef working in Los Angeles, with dates assigned to 1973, or even 1964. The dish has been snubbed by some purist sushi chefs, and also likened to the American-born chop suey by one scholar.

As of 2015[update] the country has about 4,200 sushi restaurants. It is one of the most popular styles of sushi in the US market. Japanese cuisine is an integral part of food culture in Hawaii as well as in other parts of the United States. Popular items are sushi, sashimi, and teriyaki. Kamaboko, known locally as fish cake, is a staple of saimin, a noodle soup that is a local favorite in Hawaii. Sushi, long regarded as quite exotic in the west until the 1970s, has become a popular health food in parts of North America, Western Europe and Asia.

Two of the first Japanese restaurants in the United States were Saito and Nippon. Restaurants such as these popularized dishes such as sukiyaki and tempura, while Nippon was the first restaurant in Manhattan to have a dedicated sushi bar. Nippon was also one of the first Japanese restaurants in the U.S. to grow and process their own soba and responsible for creation of the now standard beef negimayaki dish.

In the U.S., teppanyaki "iron hot plate" cooking restaurants took foothold. Such restaurants featured steak, shrimp and vegetables (including bean sprouts), cooked in front of the customer on a "teppanyaki grill" (teppan) by a personal chef who turns cooking into performance art, twirling and juggling cutting knives like batons. The meal would be served with steamed rice and Japanese soup. This style of cooking was made popular in the U.S. when Rocky Aoki founded his popular restaurant chain Benihana in 1964. In Japan this type of cooking is thought to be American food, but in the U.S. it is thought to be Japanese. Aoki thought this would go over better in the U.S. than traditional Japanese cuisine because he felt that Americans enjoyed "eating in exotic surroundings, but are deeply mistrustful of exotic foods".

Food controversies

Some elements of Japanese cuisine involving eating live seafood, such as Ikizukuri and Odori ebi, have received criticism overseas as a form of animal cruelty.

Japanese cuisine is heavily dependent on seafood products. About 45 kilograms of seafood are consumed per capita annually in Japan, more than most other developed countries. An aspect of environmental concern is Japanese appetite for seafood, which could contribute to the depletion of natural ocean resources. For example, Japan consumes 80% of the global supply of blue fin tuna, a popularly sought sushi and sashimi ingredient, which could lead to its extinction due to commercial overfishing. Another environmental concern is commercial whaling and the consumption of whale meat, for which Japan is the world's largest market.

See also

Japan portal

Food portal

Culture of Japan

Fake food in Japan

Hōchōdō

Honzen-ryōri

Japanese New Year

Kaiseki

List of Japanese condiments

List of Japanese cooking utensils

List of Japanese dishes List of Japanese desserts and sweets List of Japanese soups and stews

List of Japanese desserts and sweets

List of Japanese soups and stews

List of Japanese ingredients

List of Japanese restaurants

List of sushi restaurants

References

^ Demetriou, Danielle (October 19, 2011). "Japan relishes status as country with most three-starred Michelin restaurants". The Daily Telegraph. ISSN 0307-1235. Archived from the original on January 11, 2022. Retrieved January 15, 2019.

^ "Japanese cuisine added to Unesco 'intangible heritage' list". BBC News. December 5, 2013. Archived from the original on January 7, 2021. Retrieved June 3, 2021.

^ Rath, Eric C. (2013). "Reevaluating Rikyū: Kaiseki and the Origins of Japanese Cuisine". The Journal of Japanese Studies. 39 (1): 67–96. doi:10.1353/jjs.2013.0022. ISSN 1549-4721.

^ Stevens, Carolyn S. (May 2011). "Touch: Encounters with Japanese Popular Culture". Japanese Studies. 31 (1): 1–10. doi:10.1080/10371397.2011.559898. ISSN 1037-1397.

^ Bestor, Theodore C. (December 10, 2012). Routledge Handbook of Japanese Culture and Society. Routledge. doi:10.4324/9780203818459.ch22. ISBN 978-0-203-81845-9.

^ 鈴木晋一 (1986). たべもの噺. 平凡社. pp. 68–69. ISBN 978-4-582-82813-9.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: ref duplicates default (link)

^ 鈴木伸哉; 南木睦彦 (2006). "江戸の墓から出土したコショウ". 植生史研究. 14 (1). 日本植生史学会: 29–33. doi:10.34596/hisbot.14.1_29. ISSN 0915-003X. NAID 130008053002.

^ a b Ashkenazi, Michael; Jacob, Jeanne; Michael Ashkenazi, Michael Ashkenazi (October 11, 2013). The Essence of Japanese Cuisine. Routledge. doi:10.4324/9781315027487. ISBN 978-1-136-81549-2.

^ Jung, S. (2019). The Japanese Culinary Academy teaches you the fundamentals of food from the Land of the Rising Sun

^ Avey, T. (2012). Discover the History of Sushi

^ "The United States and the Opening to Japan, 1853". United States Office of the Historian. Archived from the original on May 24, 2022. Retrieved May 2, 2024.

^ Barry William Higman (2012). How Food Made History. Wiley. p. 177. ISBN 978-1-4051-8948-4.

^ Allen, Kristi (March 26, 2019). "Why Eating Meat Was Banned in Japan for Centuries". Atlas Obscura. Archived from the original on May 18, 2021. Retrieved May 2, 2024.

^ Hosking, Richard (2010). Food and Language: Proceedings of the Oxford Symposium on Food and Cooking 2009. Oxford Symposium. p. 37. ISBN 978-1-903018-79-8.

^ Downer, Lesley (2001). At the Japanese Table: New and Traditional Recipes. Chronicle Books. p. 161. ISBN 978-0-8118-3280-9.

^ a b c Allen, Kristi (March 26, 2019). "Why Eating Meat Was Banned in Japan for Centuries". Atlas Obscura. Archived from the original on May 18, 2021. Retrieved December 26, 2019.

^ "Kappō かっ‐ぽう【割烹】 Archived September 30, 2024, at the Wayback Machine", Kojien, 4th ed., 1991.

^ Tada, Tetsunosuke [in Japanese] (1994). "Kappo" 割烹 かつぽう. Nihon Dai-hyakka zensho. Vol. 5. Shogakukan. p. 436. ISBN 978-4-09-526001-3. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved October 16, 2020.

^ Burum, Linda (1992). "Koryori-ya, Kappo, and Robata Restaurants: Little Dishes with More Style". A Guide to Ethnic Food in Los Angeles. Harper Perennial. p. 43. ISBN 978-0-06-273038-1. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved October 16, 2020.

^ "What is Japanese Kappo cuisine?". Michelin. December 19, 2017. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved January 15, 2020.

^ "Kaiseki(5) かい‐せき【懐石】 Archived September 30, 2024, at the Wayback Machine", Kojien, 4th ed., 1991.

^ Assmann, Stephanie; Rath, Eric C. (2010). "Koryori-ya, Kappo, and Robata Restaurants: Little Dishes with More Style". A Guide to Ethnic Food in Los Angeles. University of Illinois Press. p. 4. ISBN 978-0-252-07752-4. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved January 15, 2020.

^ "Honzenryōri ほんぜん‐りょうり【本膳料理】 Archived September 30, 2024, at the Wayback Machine", Kojien, 4th ed., 1991.

^ "Kaiseki(1) かい‐せき【会席】 Archived September 30, 2024, at the Wayback Machine", "かいせき‐りょうり【会席料理】" Kojien, 4th ed., 1991.

^ a b Yomiuri Shimbun, Osaka (2005) [2001]. Zatsugaku shimbun 雑学新聞. PHP Kenkyusho. ISBN 978-4-569-64432-5., p. 158

^ a b Introduction to Japanese Food Archived December 21, 2016, at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved January 8, 2010

^ a b "Japan Etiquette". Etiquette Scholar. Yellowstone Publishing, LLC. Archived from the original on August 29, 2021. Retrieved January 16, 2017.

^ Lininger, Mike. "Japan Etiquette | International Dining Etiquette | Etiquette Scholar". Etiquette Scholar. Retrieved October 3, 2018.

^ Ogura, Tomoko; 小倉朋子 (2008). "Itadakimasu" o wasureta Nihonjin: tabekata ga migaku hinsei (Shohan ed.). Tōkyō: Asukī Media Wākusu. p. 68. ISBN 978-4-04-867287-0. OCLC 244300317.

^ "ごちそうさまでした in English – Japanese–English Dictionary". Glosbe. Archived from the original on June 22, 2020. Retrieved June 2, 2019.

^ Kobayashi, T. "Taste of Simplicity: Japanese One-Soup One-Dish Cuisine". WAWAZA. Retrieved July 10, 2021.

^ Kondo, Tamami(近藤珠實) (2010). 日本の作法としきたり: 四季の行事と冠婚葬祭、その由来と常識 [Nihon no saho to shikitari: shiki no gyoji to kankon sosai, sono yurai to joshiki] (preview). PHP研究所. ISBN 978-4-569-77764-1., p. 185

^ "Taishūshokudō たいしゅう‐しょくどう【大衆食堂】 Archived September 30, 2024, at the Wayback Machine", Kojien, 4th ed., 1991.

^ a b c d Kenkyusha's New Japanese-English Dictionary, ISBN 4-7674-2015-6

^ Ishikawa, Hiroyoshi [in Japanese] (1991). Taishū bunka jiten. Kōbundō. p. 516. ISBN 978-4-335-55046-1.

^ a b c d Motoyama, Tekishū [in Japanese] (1969) [1968]. "Nihon ryōri" 日本料理. Sekai hyakka jiten 世界百科事典. Vol. 17. Heibonsha. pp. 355–356.

^ "A Day in the Life: Seasonal Foods" Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine, The Japan Forum Newsletter No.September 14, 1999.

^ Itoh, Makiko (April 26, 2013). "Katsuo, Japan's ubiquitous tuna". Japan Times. Retrieved October 19, 2020.

^ Hepburn (1888) dictionary "hashiri: The first fruits, or first caught fish of the season"

^ Gordenker, Alice (January 15, 2008). "Bento grass". Japan Times. ISSN 0447-5763. Retrieved June 5, 2019.

^ "Japanese cuisine to be nominated for UNESCO world heritage list". Mainichi Daily News. February 18, 2012. Archived from the original on February 19, 2012. Retrieved February 19, 2012.

^ UNESCO Culture Sector – Intangible Heritage – 2003 Convention : Archived October 22, 2016, at the Wayback Machine UNESCO. Retrieved May 24, 2014.

^ "Japanese cuisine added to UNESCO intangible heritage list". Mainichi Daily News. December 5, 2013. Archived from the original on December 10, 2013. Retrieved December 5, 2013.

^ Ehara, Ayako (1999). "School Meals and Japan's Changing Diet". Japan Echo. 26. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved October 18, 2015. Relatively alien to the traditional Japanese diet were meat, oil and fats, and dairy products...

^ Cawthorn (1997), p. 7

^ Morimatsu, Yoshiaki; Hinonishi, Sukenori; Sakamoto, Taro (1957). 風俗辞典. 東京堂出版. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved October 18, 2015. 天武天皇三年に牛・馬。犬・猿,鶏の肉を食べゐこと古禁じてから肉食が演じ、江戸時代になっても四足・二足を食べない家が多かった。もっとも野獣の肉は食用に供した。

^ a b Watanabe, Zenjiro. "Removal of the Ban on Meat: The Meat-Eating Culture of Japan at the Beginning of Westernization" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on April 29, 2019. Retrieved December 26, 2019.

^ Pulvers, Roger (March 6, 2011). "Japanese families' nutritional values pay dearly for 'progress'". Japan Times. Retrieved March 22, 2011.{{cite news}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link)

^ Ochiai, H. (November 25, 2014). Is it a potato or a prawn?: Kyoto farmers make a name selling strangely shaped vegetables, The Japan News by the Yomiuri Shimbun, the-japan-news.com/news/article/0001713547

^ a b c Fukuta, Ajio (福田アジオ) (1999). Nihon minzoku daijiten(日本民俗大辞典). Vol. 1. Yoshikawa Kobunkan (吉川弘文館). ISBN 978-4-642-01332-1. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved October 18, 2015., p. 16 安土,桃山時代から江戸時代にかけて南蛮料理や中国料理の影響と油の生産増大に伴い、油揚や天麩羅,素揚,薩摩撝など副食物として

^ Li, Jin-lin; Tu, Zong-cai; Zhang, Lu; Sha, Xiao-mei; Wang, Hui; Pang, Juan-juan; Tang, Ping-ping (August 1, 2016). "The effect of ginger and garlic addition during cooking on the volatile profile of grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) soup". Journal of Food Science and Technology. 53 (8): 3253–3270. doi:10.1007/s13197-016-2301-1. ISSN 0975-8402. PMC 5055890. PMID 27784920.

^ Hirasa, Kenji; Takemasa, Mitsuo (June 16, 1998). Spice Science and Technology. CRC Press. pp. 76–77. ISBN 978-0-585-36755-2. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved September 24, 2021.

^ Today, What Way. "Food in Japan is not just about Sushi – Japanese Food Adventure". What Way Today. Archived from the original on June 11, 2021. Retrieved April 20, 2016.

^ Pemberton, Robert W. (1999). "Japanese Food as Art and Symbol: Evidence from Inedible Leaf Garnishes". Petits Propos Culinaires.

^ Andoh (2012), p. 20 "spinach steeped in broth"; p. 63 "(spinach) blanched and then marinated" in smoky broth.

^ Shimbo (2000), p. 237: "Ohitashi literally means 'dipped item,' although the dressing is actually poured over the leaf vegetables."

^ a b Shimbo (2000), p. 147 "wakame and cucumber in sanbaizu dressing (sunomono)"; p. 74 "sanbaizu" recipe

^ Tsuji, Fisher & Reichl (2006), p. 429.

^ a b c Tsuji, Fisher & Reichl (2006), pp. 241–253

^ Kiple & Ornelas (2000), p. 1176

^ a b Kobayashi, Kazuhiko; Smil, Vaclav (2012). Japan's Dietary Transition and Its Impacts. US: Massachusetts Institute of Technology. p. 18. ISBN 978-0-262-01782-4.

^ Ashkenazi, Michael; Jacob, Jeanne (2003). Food Culture in Japan. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 37. ISBN 978-0-313-32438-3. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved September 24, 2021.

^ Ashcraft, Brian (May 6, 2019). "Japan's Noodle Slurping Noises Disturb Tourists, It Seems". Kotaku. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved May 6, 2019.

^ Hosking, Richard (1995). A Dictionary of Japanese Food: Ingredients and Culture. Tuttle. p. 30. ISBN 0-8048-2042-2.

^ "Why JapaneseVebarages Are So Unique". JapanUp! magazine – Informational site for Japan fans. June 2, 2022. Retrieved September 13, 2025.

^ Ashcraft, Brian (April 12, 2011). "Is Japan Ready To Stop Ignoring Dr Pepper?". Kotaku. Retrieved September 13, 2025.

^ Flemming, Michael (January 12, 2014). "A&W Restaurants". JapanTravel. Retrieved September 13, 2025.

^ "A&W celebrates 50 years in Okinawa!". Okinawanderer Okinawa News travel. March 21, 2022. Retrieved September 13, 2025.

^ "Sake FAQs". Archived from the original on November 6, 2014. Retrieved November 14, 2014.

^ "What is Shochu?". Archived from the original on July 17, 2011. Retrieved December 31, 2006.

^ "Japanese drinking". April 13, 2007. Archived from the original on March 19, 2022. Retrieved August 19, 2017.

^ a b "Sai さい【菜】 Archived September 30, 2024, at the Wayback Machine", Kojien, 4th ed., 1991.

^ Shapiro, Stephanie (September 22, 2004). "Saving time, but losing a tradition among Japanese". The Baltimore Sun. Archived from the original on January 15, 2020. Retrieved January 15, 2020.

^ "Okazu お‐かず【御数】】 Archived September 30, 2024, at the Wayback Machine", Kojien, 4th ed., 1991.

^ "腹が鳴るなり万福寺 黄檗宗大本山万福寺（宇治市）". ひびき紀行. September 3, 2011.

^ Nagatomo, Akiko (長友麻希子) (September 3, 2011). "普茶料理". 「京都」×（もっと）ワかる. Industry and Tourism Bureau, City of Kyoto. Archived from the original on March 4, 2016. Retrieved May 6, 2012.

^ Andoh (2010), p. 188 – gives a recipe.

^ Jo, Andrew. "Japanese food includes dishes such as delicious Soba and Udon noodles". Archived from the original on April 1, 2019. Retrieved December 15, 2015.

^ Davidson, Alan (2003). Seafood of South-East Asia: a comprehensive guide with recipes. Ten Speed Press. p. 34. ISBN 1-58008-452-4. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved October 18, 2015.

^ Tsuji, Shizuo; M.F.K. Fisher (2007). Japanese Cooking: A Simple Art (25 ed.). Kodansha International. pp. 280–281. ISBN 978-4-7700-3049-8.

^ Mente, Boye Lafayette De (2007). Dining Guide to Japan: Find the Right Restaurant, Order the Right Dish, and. Tuttle Publishing. p. 70. ISBN 978-4-8053-0875-2. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved October 16, 2020.

^ Ayao, Okumura. "Japan's Ramen Romance." Japan Quarterly 48.3 (2001): 66. ProQuest Asian Business & Reference

^ a b c Seligman, Lucy. "The History of Japanese Cuisine." Japan Quarterly 41.2 (1994): 165. PAO Liberal Arts Collection 1.

^ a b 『カレーライス』に関するアンケート (in Japanese). ネットリサーチ ディムスドライブ. Archived from the original on December 26, 2018. Retrieved February 1, 2016.

^ Morieda Takashi. "The Unlikely Love Affair with Curry and Rice." Japan Quarterly 47.2 (2000): 66. ProQuest Asian Business & Reference.

^ Krader, Kate (September 18, 2019). "Japanese Milk Bread Is Coming for Your Lunch". Bloomberg News. Archived from the original on July 2, 2021. Retrieved July 30, 2023.

^ Wei, Tiffany (December 20, 2021). "Yōshoku: Reformation of Eating as an Act of Nationalism". ArcGIS StoryMaps. Retrieved December 12, 2023.

^ "Japan's surprising 'Western' cuisine". BBC Travel. July 15, 2020. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved February 4, 2022.

^ Zheng, Yunfei; Crawford, Gary W.; Chen, Xugao (September 5, 2014). Yang, Xiaoyan (ed.). "Archaeological Evidence for Peach (Prunus persica) Cultivation and Domestication in China". PLOS ONE. 9 (9) e106595. Bibcode:2014PLoSO...9j6595Z. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0106595. ISSN 1932-6203. PMC 4156326. PMID 25192436.

^ Leipe, Christian; Long, Tengwen; Wagner, Mayke; Goslar, Tomasz; Tarasov, Pavel E. (September 15, 2020). "The spread of rice to Japan: Insights from Bayesian analysis of direct radiocarbon dates and population dynamics in East Asia". Quaternary Science Reviews. 244 106507. Bibcode:2020QSRv..24406507L. doi:10.1016/j.quascirev.2020.106507. ISSN 0277-3791.

^ Cooke, Niall P.; Mattiangeli, Valeria; Cassidy, Lara M.; Okazaki, Kenji (2021). "Ancient genomics reveals tripartite origins of Japanese populations". Science Advances. 7 (38) eabh2419. Bibcode:2021SciA....7.2419C. doi:10.1126/sciadv.abh2419. PMC 8448447. PMID 34533991.

^ Mukai, Yukiko; Hashimoto, Keiko; Hasegawa, Chizu (1977). "On the Origin of Table Chopsticks in Japan and Half-split Chopsticks". Science of Cookery. 10 (1): 41–46. doi:10.11402/cookeryscience1968.10.1_41.

^ Heiss, Mary Lou; Heiss, Robert J. (2007). The story of tea: a cultural history and drinking guide. Berkeley, Calif: Ten Speed Press. ISBN 978-1-58008-745-2.

^ Wilson, Kathy (2010). Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering. Global Issues (1st ed.). New York: Infobase Learning. ISBN 978-0-8160-7784-7.

^ Ishige, Naomichi (2001). The history and culture of Japanese food. London; New York: Kegan Paul. ISBN 978-0-7103-0657-9.

^ Dougill, John (2006). Kyoto: a cultural history. Cityscapes. Oxford New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-530137-3.

^ "Okonomiyaki Savoury Pancake Recipe". Japan Centre. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved March 27, 2022.

^ "The most delicious way to eat tonkatsu blows people's minds in Japan". SoraNews24 -Japan News-. February 20, 2024. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved August 31, 2024.

^ a b Itoh, Makiko (August 26, 2011). "Curry — it's more 'Japanese' than you think". The Japan Times. Archived from the original on January 8, 2018. Retrieved March 31, 2018.

^ Curry Recipe Archived January 27, 2019, at the Wayback Machine Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force (in Japanese)

^ "Chicken katsu curry". Food recipes. BBC. 2016. Archived from the original on July 14, 2021. Retrieved January 20, 2016.

^ "They Serve What?! What Global Restaurant Chains Do Differently In Japan". Live Japan. November 29, 2019. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved April 29, 2023.

^ Farrer, James (2015). The Globalization of Asian Cuisines: Transnational Networks and Culinary Contact Zones. Springer. ISBN 978-1-137-51408-0. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved February 1, 2018.

^ Laemmerhirt, Iris-Aya (2014). Embracing Differences: Transnational Cultural Flows between Japan and the United States, Volume 36 of Edition Kulturwissenschaft. transcript Verlag. pp. 102–103. ISBN 978-3-8394-2600-5. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved October 16, 2020.

^ a b Fitriyanti, Azi (January 25, 2014). "Japanese Cuisine in Indonesia Focuses on Taste, Menus Food Safety". Antara News. Archived from the original on June 23, 2016. Retrieved May 5, 2014.

^ Singapore, Japanese Dining (August 20, 2025). "The Evolution of Japanese Dining in Singapore". Retrieved January 23, 2026.

^ Team, Sushi Masa (October 13, 2025). "Japanese Food Guide in Singapore: A Culinary Guide From Sushi To Fusion". Retrieved January 23, 2026.

^ Singapore, Japanese Dining (August 20, 2025). "The Evolution of Japanese Dining in Singapore". Retrieved January 23, 2026.

^ admin99 (February 21, 2025). "The Growth of Japanese Cuisine in Singapore". My Blog. Retrieved January 23, 2026.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link)

^ "Asian Food and Australia's Changing Palate". Peril Magazine. November 14, 2011. Archived from the original on April 2, 2015. Retrieved March 26, 2015.

^ "Top 10 Restaurants of Australia". Top 10 Restaurants. Archived from the original on January 17, 2022. Retrieved March 26, 2015.

^ a b "Japanese Culture in Australia". Australian Good Food Guide. Archived from the original on September 24, 2016. Retrieved March 26, 2015.

^ Kugel, Seth (November 9, 2008). "Rio de Janeiro: Koni Stores". The New York Times. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved May 5, 2010.

^ De Carvalho, André; Gerhard, Felipe; Ferreira De Freitas, Ana Augusta (2020). "Food Experiences at Home: The Role of Ethnic Food in Brazilian Family Relations". Latin American Business Review. 22: 53–73. doi:10.1080/10978526.2020.1812399. S2CID 225280313. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved September 30, 2020.

^ Duke, Laura Churchill (March 4, 2021). "'Ultimate comfort food': From traditional Japanese versions to Atlantic Canadian twists, ramen popular treat". SaltWire Network. SaltWire. Retrieved April 5, 2022.

^ "Chicken Teriyaki bento set". Ichiban Sushi. Archived from the original on March 19, 2022. Retrieved July 26, 2017.

^ "7 Best Japanese Resto in Jakarta's Little Tokyo (Melawai)". Wanderbites. July 29, 2016. Archived from the original on March 30, 2022. Retrieved July 26, 2017.

^ Japanese Food Favorit ala Cafe (in Indonesian). Gramedia Pustaka Utama. ISBN 978-979-22-2728-4.

^ Media, Kompas Cyber (February 10, 2011). "Okonomiyaki Merambah Kaki Lima". Kompas.com (in Indonesian). Archived from the original on September 15, 2018. Retrieved September 15, 2018.

^ "10 Japanese Street Food yang Bisa Kamu Temukan di Jakarta". Qraved Journal. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved September 19, 2018.

^ Mustinda, Lusiana. "Yang Hangat! di 4 Tempat Ini Ada Oden Enak dengan Harga Terjangkau". detikfood (in Indonesian). Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved September 19, 2018.

^ "New: Suntiang, When Padang Marries Japanese Food". Culinary Bonanza. February 6, 2014. Archived from the original on May 5, 2014. Retrieved May 5, 2014.

^ Resty Woro Yuniar (February 21, 2014). "Food Fridays: When Rendang Said 'I Do' to Sushi". The Wall Street Journal. Archived from the original on September 8, 2018. Retrieved August 4, 2017.

^ I. Christianto (November 30, 2009). "Enjoying internationally popular Japanese food". The Jakarta Post. Archived from the original on March 19, 2022. Retrieved May 5, 2014.

^ "Yoshinoya Indonesia". Archived from the original on May 1, 2018. Retrieved December 17, 2018.

^ Cheryl M. Arcibal (July 8, 2013). "Latest Japanese resto in town wants to conquer Pinoy bellies with pork and ramen | Food". The Philippine Star. Archived from the original on March 19, 2022. Retrieved March 3, 2014.

^ [1] Archived July 1, 2012, at the Wayback Machine

^ Adachi, Nobuko (2006). Japanese Diasporas: Unsung Pasts, Conflicting Presents and Uncertain Futures. Taylor & Francis. ISBN 978-0-203-96884-0. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved March 3, 2014 – via Google Books.

^ "From sushi to tempura to Wagyu: Japanese food 101". ABS-CBN News. May 15, 2012. Archived from the original on February 27, 2014. Retrieved January 8, 2014.

^ Tiu, Cheryl (December 31, 2012). "Best of Manila | CNN Travel". CNN. Archived from the original on February 22, 2014. Retrieved March 3, 2014.

^ Ocampo, Ambeth R. (August 30, 2012). "Japanese origins of the Philippine 'halo-halo'". Philippine Daily Inquirer. Archived from the original on April 23, 2019. Retrieved April 23, 2019.

^ "Halo-Halo Graham Float Recipe". Pinoy Recipe at Iba Pa. July 24, 2019. Archived from the original on July 24, 2019. Retrieved July 24, 2019.

^ Crisol, Christine (2006). "A Halo-Halo Menu". In Zialcita, Fernando N. (ed.). Quiapo: Heart of Manila. Manila: Quiapo Printing. p. 321. ISBN 978-971-93673-0-7. Today, many non-Quiapense informants in their forties and older associate the Quinta Market with this dessert. Why did this market become important in the invention of this dessert? Aside from its being a Japanese legacy in the area [...] of all the city markets, the Quinta was closest to the ice.

^ "Sachiko's Little Kyoto: A Little Slice of Japan in Cebu". November 7, 2021. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved December 30, 2021.

^ Polistico, Edgie (2017). Philippine Food, Cooking, & Dining Dictionary. Anvil Publishing, Inc. ISBN 978-621-420-087-0.

^ Polistico, Edgie (July 28, 2018). "Odong". Philippine Food Illustrated. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved January 18, 2022.

^ a b Ramos, Ige (November 18, 2013). "Kumain at tumulong". Bandera. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved January 18, 2022.

^ "Odong, Sardinas at Patola a la MaiMai". Market Manila. November 15, 2006. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved January 18, 2022.

^ a b c d "Odong Recipe". Panlasang Pinoy. November 15, 2013. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved January 18, 2022.

^ Ong, Kenneth Irvin (October 18, 2018). "For the love of Ligo Sardines". Edge Davao. Archived from the original on October 22, 2018. Retrieved January 18, 2022.

^ a b "Sardines with Odong Noodles". Kusina ni Teds. June 2, 2019. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved January 18, 2022.

^ a b Figueroa, Antonio V. (September 12, 2016). "US, Japan linguistic legacies". Edge Davao. No. 142. p. 9. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved January 18, 2022.

^ Goodman, Grant K. (1967). "Japanese Percentage of Participation in Davao Province Industries". Davao: A Case Study in Japanese-Philippine Relations. University of Kansas, Center for East Asian Studies. p. 26. hdl:1808/1195. Archived from the original on August 7, 2022.

^ Katakura, Yoshifumi [in Japanese] (2016). "片倉佳史の台湾歴史紀行 第一回 港湾都市・基隆を訪ねる" (PDF). Japan–Taiwan Exchange Association. p. 9. Archived (PDF) from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved March 23, 2020.

^ Ishige, Naomichi [in Japanese] (2014). The History and Culture of Japanese Food. Routledge. p. 246. ISBN 978-1-136-60255-9. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved October 16, 2020.

^ "「さつま揚げ」の各都道府県での呼び名を調査 関西は「天ぷら」". J-TOWN.NET. June 16, 2017. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved March 23, 2020.

^ "Burgeoning growth of Japanese cuisine in Thailand". The Nation. September 24, 2012. Archived from the original on February 4, 2018. Retrieved April 12, 2016.

^ a b Renton, Alex (February 26, 2006). "How Sushi ate the World". The Guardian. Archived from the original on January 13, 2008. Retrieved August 20, 2006.

^ a b Ji-Song Ku, Robert (2013). Dubious Gastronomy: The Cultural Politics of Eating Asian in the USA. University of Hawaii Press. pp. 43–48. ISBN 978-0-824-83920-8. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved January 28, 2020.

^ Passy, Charles (August 26, 2015). "Meet the Pilot Who Doubles as Block Island's Chinese-Food Delivery Guy". The Wall Street Journal. pp. A1. Archived from the original on March 19, 2022. Retrieved August 26, 2015.

^ Ji-Song Ku (2013), p. 263.

^ Claiborne, Craig (November 11, 1963). "Restaurants on Review; Variety of Japanese Dishes Offered, But Raw Fish Is Specialty on Menu". The New York Times. Archived from the original on December 2, 2022. Retrieved August 3, 2018.

^ "The chef, obsessed: Nobuyoshi Kuraoka established his own local buckwheat farm to achieve the perfect soba noodle". Politico PRO. Retrieved August 3, 2018.

^ Fabricant, Florence (October 6, 1982). "Adapting American Foods to Japanese Cuisine". The New York Times. Archived from the original on December 2, 2022. Retrieved August 3, 2018.

^ Johnson, Eric (August 30, 2001). "American-style peace redefines Japanese palate". Japan Times. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved March 24, 2019.

^ "The Kitchenless Restaurant". Kitchen Planning. Vol. 6. p. 63. December 1968. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved January 28, 2020.

^ "Why Hibachi Is Complicated" (Audio Podcast with Notes). Sporkful. March 11, 2019. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved March 24, 2019.

^ "Ikizukuri: As Fresh As Seafood Can Get". US represented. August 19, 2018. Archived from the original on December 3, 2019. Retrieved September 12, 2020.

^ "Faostat". Archived from the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved September 30, 2020.

^ McCurry, Justin (November 10, 2016). "Trouble at Tsukiji: world's biggest fish market caught in controversy". The Guardian. Archived from the original on June 13, 2022. Retrieved December 1, 2016.

^ "Whale meat trade continues in East Asia". WWF. Archived from the original on December 2, 2016. Retrieved December 7, 2016.

^ "Whaling in Japan". Whale and Dolphin Conservation. Archived from the original on January 9, 2019. Retrieved December 2, 2016.

Works cited

Andoh, Elizabeth (2010). Kansha: Celebrating Japan's Vegan and Vegetarian Traditions. Random House Digital. ISBN 978-1-58008-955-5.

Andoh, Elizabeth (2012). Washoku: Recipes from the Japanese Home Kitchen. Random House Digital. ISBN 978-0-307-81355-8.

Cawthorn, M. W. (1997). "Meat consumption from stranded whales and marine mammals in New Zealand: Public health and other issues" (PDF). Conservation Advisory Science Notes (164). Wellington, New Zealand: Department of Conservation. ISSN 1171-9834. Archived (PDF) from the original on December 6, 2013.

Hepburn, James Curtis (1888). A Japanese-English and English-Japanese Dictionary (4 ed.). Tokyo: Z.P. Maruya & Company. Archived from the original on September 30, 2024. Retrieved October 18, 2015.

Kiple, Kenneth F.; Ornelas, Kriemhild (2000). The Cambridge World History of Food. Vol. 2. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-40216-6. Archived from the original on May 4, 2012.

Shimbo, Hiroko (2000). The Japanese Kitchen: 250 Recipes in a Traditional Spirit. Harvard Common Press. ISBN 978-1-55832-177-9.

Tsuji, Shizuo; Fisher, M.F.K.; Reichl, Ruth (2006). Japanese Cooking: A Simple Art. Kodansha International. ISBN 978-4-7700-3049-8.

Further reading

Cuisine of Japan

Cwiertka, Katarzyna Joanna (2006). Modern Japanese Cuisine: Food, Power And National Identity. Reaktion Books. ISBN 978-1-86189-298-0.

Francks, Penelope. "Diet and the comparison of living standards across the Great Divergence: Japanese food history in an English mirror." Journal of Global History 14.1 (2019): 3-21.

Rath, Eric C. (2010). Food and Fantasy in Early Modern Japan. University of California Press. ISBN 978-0-520-26227-0.

External links

JAPANESE CUISINE COMPLETE Japanese Culinary Academy, Kyoto Prefectual University

Chahan

Curry Katsu curry

Katsu curry

Glutinous

Hatsuga genmai

Donmono Chūkadon Gyūdon Katsudon Oyakodon Tekkadon Tenshindon Unadon

Chūkadon

Gyūdon

Katsudon

Oyakodon

Tekkadon

Tenshindon

Unadon

Hayashi rice

Onigiri Tenmusu

Tenmusu

Omurice

Sushi History Sustainable

History

Sustainable

Sekihan

Takikomi

Harusame

Hiyamugi

Hiyashi chūka

Ramen Champon Kagoshima Muroran curry Tantan-men Tonkotsu Tsukemen

Champon

Kagoshima

Muroran curry

Tantan-men

Tonkotsu

Tsukemen

Shirataki

Okinawa soba Soki

Sōmen Salad

Udon Yakiudon

Yakiudon

Yakisoba

Monjayaki

Okonomiyaki Hirayachi

Hirayachi

Takoyaki

Melonpan

Milk bread

Yudane

Agedashi dōfu

Agemono Furai Karaage Korokke Kushikatsu Satsuma-age Tempura

Karaage

Korokke

Kushikatsu

Satsuma-age

Tempura

Chawanmushi

Chikuzenni

Kabayaki

Kakuni

Kushiyaki

Nabemono

Namasu

Nikujaga

Onsen tamago

Sashimi Fugusashi

Fugusashi

Shabu-shabu

Shiokara

Sukiyaki

Tamagoyaki

Tokoroten

Tonkatsu

Tororo

Tsukemono Nukazuke Takuan

Nukazuke

Takuan

Tsukudani

Tsukune

Yakiniku

Yakitori

Tonjiru

Kenchin-jiru

Miso soup

Suimono [ja]

Bento Ekiben Kyaraben Makunouchi Wappameshi

Ekiben

Kyaraben

Makunouchi

Wappameshi

Honzen-ryōri

Jūbako

Kaiseki

Osechi

Sake Amazake Nigori Toso

Amazake

Nigori

Shōchū Awamori Habushu Umeshu

Awamori

Habushu

Umeshu

Green tea History Bancha Gyokuro Hōjicha Kabuse Kukicha Matcha Matcha latte Sencha Uji

History

Bancha

Gyokuro

Hōjicha

Kabuse

Kukicha

Matcha Matcha latte

Matcha latte

Sencha

Herbal teas Genmaicha Sobacha Kombu-cha Mugicha

Genmaicha

Sobacha

Kombu-cha

Mugicha

Ramune

Aojiru

C.C. Lemon

Calpis

Canned coffee Boss Georgia

Georgia

Energy drinks Lipovitan Oronamin C

Lipovitan

Oronamin C

Sports drinks Aquarius Pocari Sweat

Aquarius

Pocari Sweat

Yakult

Amanattō

Botan Rice Candy

Daifuku

Dango Chichi Kibi

Chichi

Dorayaki

Karukan

Konpeitō

Mochi Agemochi Goheimochi Kankoro Kuzumochi Zunda-mochi

Agemochi

Goheimochi

Kankoro

Kuzumochi

Zunda-mochi

Senbei Arare

Shiruko

Taiyaki

Warabimochi

Square watermelon

Yubari King

Ruby Roman

Shine Muscat

Aonori

Bamboo shoot

Beni shōga

Burdock

Daikon Sakurajima

Sakurajima

Fish Kamaboko Mentaiko / tarako Surimi Tobiko

Kamaboko

Mentaiko / tarako

Surimi

Tobiko

Hijiki

Kanzuri

Karashi

Katsuobushi

Konnyaku

Kuromitsu

Kuzuko

Mayonnaise

Mushrooms Enokitake Matsutake Shiitake

Enokitake

Matsutake

Shiitake

Sake kasu

Sansyō

Sauce Ponzu Soy Tare Tonkatsu Worcestershire

Tonkatsu

Worcestershire

Sesame oil

Shichimi

Tenkasu

Umeboshi

Wasabi

Yuzu Yuzu koshō

Yuzu koshō

Chawan

Chopsticks

Kitchen knife Deba bōchō Gyuto Maguro bōchō Nakiri bōchō Santoku Sashimi bōchō Usuba bōchō Yanagi ba

Deba bōchō

Maguro bōchō

Nakiri bōchō

Santoku

Sashimi bōchō

Usuba bōchō

Yanagi ba

Rice cooker

Shamoji

Suribachi

Dishes Ramen Soups and stews

Soups and stews

Sushi and sashimi ingredients

Chinmi

Ichijū-sansai

Itameshi

Omakase

Teppanyaki

Tokusanhin

Teriyaki

Customs and etiquette

Okinawan cuisine

Category

Outline

Lists Eras Clans Shoguns Wars

Shoguns

Economic

Education

Foreign relations

Military Naval Imperial Army Imperial Navy

Imperial Army

Imperial Navy

Paleolithic

Jōmon period

Yayoi period

Kofun period

Asuka period Taihō Code Asuka Kiyomihara Code Hakuhō period

Taihō Code

Asuka Kiyomihara Code

Hakuhō period

Taika Reform Monmu period

Monmu period

Nara period

Heian period

Genpei War

Kamakura period Kamakura shogunate

Kamakura shogunate

Mongol invasions of Japan

Genkō War

Kenmu Restoration

Muromachi period Ashikaga shogunate Nanboku-chō period

Ashikaga shogunate

Nanboku-chō period

Ōnin War

Sengoku period Azuchi–Momoyama period Council of Five Elders

Azuchi–Momoyama period

Council of Five Elders

Imjin War

Edo period Tokugawa shogunate

Tokugawa shogunate

Bakumatsu

Empire of Japan

Meiji era Imperial Constitution (1890–1947) Government Meiji oligarchy Meiji Restoration Abolition of the han system Boshin War Satsuma Rebellion

Imperial Constitution (1890–1947)

Government

Meiji oligarchy

Meiji Restoration

Abolition of the han system

Boshin War

Satsuma Rebellion

Kazoku (noble)

First Sino-Japanese War

Russo-Japanese War

Taishō era Japan during World War I 1923 Great Kantō earthquake

Japan during World War I

1923 Great Kantō earthquake

Shōwa era Japan during World War II Mukden Incident Second Sino-Japanese War Pacific War Occupation Postwar Economic miracle

Japan during World War II

Mukden Incident

Second Sino-Japanese War

Pacific War

Occupation

Postwar

Economic miracle

Heisei era Great Hanshin earthquake 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami

Great Hanshin earthquake

2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami

Reiwa era 2019 imperial transition COVID-19 pandemic

2019 imperial transition

COVID-19 pandemic

Addresses

Archipelago

Cities

Districts

Earthquakes

Environment

Extreme points

Islands

Prefectures

Regions

Rivers

Villages

World Heritage Sites

Constitution

Elections

Emperor list

Imperial House

Foreign relations

Human rights LGBTQ

Judiciary Supreme Court

Supreme Court

Law enforcement

National Diet House of Representatives House of Councillors List of members

House of Representatives

House of Councillors

List of members

Political parties

Self-Defense Forces Ground Maritime Air

Ground

Maritime

Cabinet list

Fiscal policy

Foreign policy

Ministries

Prime Minister list

Deputy Prime Minister

Agriculture, forestry, fishing

Central bank

Manufacturing

Energy

Science and technology

Telecommunications

Transport

Anti-monarchism

Censorship

Demographics

Education

Etiquette

Gambling

Health Kanpu masatsu

Kanpu masatsu

Housing Homelessness

Homelessness

Languages Japanese

Japanese

Life expectancy

People

Pornography

Prostitution

Religion

Sex trafficking

Sexual minorities

Sexuality

Smoking

Aesthetics

Anime / Manga

Architecture

Bonsai

Cinema

Class S (genre)

Cuisine (wine)

Festivals

Folklore

Gardens

Geisha

Genderless fashion

Hikikomori

Hanami

Henohenomoheji

Ikebana

Irezumi

Kawaii

LGBTQ culture

Literature

Martial arts

Mythology

National symbols

No-pan kissa

Onsen / Sentō

Otokonoko

Origami

Popular culture

Shinto

Tea ceremony

Television

Theatre

Video games

Japan portal

Category

Afghanistan

Armenia

Azerbaijan

Bahrain

Bangladesh

Bhutan

Brunei

Burma (Myanmar)

Cambodia

Cyprus

East Timor (Timor-Leste)

Georgia

Indonesia

Israel

Jordan

Kazakhstan

North Korea

South Korea

Kuwait

Kyrgyzstan

Lebanon

Malaysia

Maldives

Mongolia

Pakistan

Philippines

Russia

Saudi Arabia

Singapore

Sri Lanka

Tajikistan

Thailand

Turkey

Turkmenistan

United Arab Emirates

Uzbekistan

Vietnam

Abkhazia

Northern Cyprus

Palestine

South Ossetia

Taiwan

British Indian Ocean Territory

Christmas Island

Cocos (Keeling) Islands

Hong Kong

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

United States

France

BnF data

Latvia

Israel

Yale LUX

# Japanese regional cuisine


Nagoya

Okinawa

Yōshoku

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Sashimi

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

List of Japanese cooking utensils

Etiquette

Kaiseki

New Year

Japanese cuisine has a vast array of regional specialities known as kyōdo ryōri (郷土料理) in Japanese, many of them originating from dishes prepared using local ingredients and traditional recipes.

While "local" ingredients are now available nationwide, and some originally regional dishes such as okonomiyaki and Edo-style sushi have spread throughout Japan and are no longer considered as such, many regional specialities survive to this day, with some new ones still being created.

Regionality is also apparent in many dishes which are served throughout Japan such as ozōni soup. For example, the dashi-based broth for serving udon noodles is heavy on dark soy sauce, similar to soba broth, in eastern Japan, while in western Japan the broth relies more on the complex dashi-flavouring, with a hint of light soy sauce.

Historical origins

Broadly speaking, the historical origins of Japanese regional specialities can be categorized into four types:

Traditional – Food originating from local ingredients before the days of refrigeration

Late 19th and early 20th centuries – The influx of foreign culture in the wake of the 1886 Meiji Restoration and the end of national seclusion led to waves of new dishes being invented throughout Japan using new ingredients and cooking methods.

In the aftermath of the Second World War – Food shortages led to new dishes being devised from existing ingredients, many by returning soldiers bringing back recipes from abroad.

Modern – Modern chefs inventing new dishes which become popular locally, as well as dishes artificially[clarification needed] proclaimed to be regional specialties by local businesses and tourist boards.

List of regional specialities

Hokkaido

Jingisukan – Lamb and vegetables, barbecued, often at the table

Ishikari-nabe [ja] – A nabemono dish of salmon pieces stewed with vegetables in a miso-based broth

Ruibe – An Ainu speciality. Thinly sliced raw, frozen salmon (traditionally frozen naturally outside), eaten like sashimi

Sanpei-jiru [ja] – A winter miso soup made with salmon and vegetables such as daikon, carrot, potato, and onions

Chanchan-yaki [ja] – peciality of fishing villages. Miso-grilled salmon with bean sprouts and other vegetables

Hokkaido ramen – Many cities in Hokkaido have their own versions of ramen

Ika sōmen [ja] – Squid sliced into very thin noodle-like strips and eaten with a dipping sauce, like sōmen (Hakodate)

Tohoku region

Ichigo-ni [ja] – A clear soup of thinly sliced sea urchin roe and abalone. (Pacific coast of Aomori Prefecture)

Jappa-jiru [ja] (or zappa-jiru) – Fish gut and vegetable soup, usually cod or salmon. (Aomori and Akita Prefectures)

Senbei-jiru [ja] – A soy-based soup containing baked rice cake and vegetables (Hachinohe)

The three great noodles of Morioka: Wanko soba – Soba noodles served in tiny bowls which are re-filled repeatedly (Iwate Prefecture) Morioka reimen – A variation of naengmyeon, a Korean cold noodle soup, introduced by Korean immigrants (Morioka) Jajamen – A Japanese variant of the Chinese zhajiangmian (Morioka)

Wanko soba – Soba noodles served in tiny bowls which are re-filled repeatedly (Iwate Prefecture)

Morioka reimen – A variation of naengmyeon, a Korean cold noodle soup, introduced by Korean immigrants (Morioka)

Jajamen – A Japanese variant of the Chinese zhajiangmian (Morioka)

Harako-meshi [ja] – Rice cooked in a salmon and soy stock and served topped with ikura (salmon caviar)

Kiritanpo – Pounded rice cakes wrapped around a skewer and grilled. Eaten with miso or stewed with chicken and vegetables as a nabemono

Dondon-yaki [ja] – Okonomiyaki wrapped around a wooden stick to take away (Yamagata City) or folded in two (Sendai)

Gyūtan – Beef tongue of various style. Usually grilled but varies all the way to raw, sashimi style, tongue (Sendai)

Ika menchi – Fried minced vegetables, squid, and floor patties, often served with sauce (Aomori Prefecture)

Chūbu and Kanto regions

Inago no tsukudani – Inago (a type of grasshopper) stewed in sweetened soy (Rural communities in inland Yamagata, Nagano and Gunma Prefectures)

Hōtō – Udon noodles stewed in a miso-based soup with vegetables such as pumpkin or potatoes, mushrooms and sometimes meat. This is usually served in a cast-iron pot.

Monja-yaki – A savoury pancake similar to okonomiyaki but much runnier and eaten directly off the grill using a metal spatula, from working-class districts of Tokyo. A nostalgic food item making a recent comeback.

Yanagawa nabe [ja] and dojō nabe – A nabemono dish of loach cooked in a pot. Yanagawa nabe also contains sliced burdock root and egg. (working class districts of Tokyo)

Sushi – What is known as "sushi" worldwide is a type of sushi known in Japan as edo-mae-zushi (Edo Bay sushi) and originates from 1820s Edo (Tokyo)

Masuzushi [ja] – Trout steamed in wrapped bamboo leaves and served on a circular bed of rice six inches in diameter (Toyama Prefecture)

Jibu-ni – Duck or chicken pieces coated in starch and stewed with wheat gluten, mushrooms and vegetables in a soy-dashi broth (Kanazawa)

Sauce katsudon – Katsudon with Worcestershire sauce (Komagane, Nagano and Fukui Prefecture)

Miso nikomi udon – Udon stewed in broth flavoured with hatcho-miso (Nagoya and surrounding areas)

Miso-katsu [ja] – Tonkatsu (breaded pork cutlet) with a miso based sauce (Nagoya and surrounding areas)

Kishimen [ja] – A type of flat udon (Nagoya)

Hamaguri cuisine – Various dishes made from oriental clams in Kiso Three Rivers estuary (Kuwana)

Tekone-zushi [ja] – A type of sushi where slices of raw tuna and the like are marinaded in a soy sauce based marinade and then laid out over vinegared rice and sprinkled with shredded nori, etc. (southern Shima Peninsula in Mie Prefecture)

Kansai and Chūgoku regions

Yudofu – Tofu simmered in hot water with kombu and eaten with various dipping sauces (Kyoto)

Osaka zushi – Sushi pressed quadrangle sharp and also called Hako zushi ("box sushi") (Osaka) Battera zushi - A type of box sushi using mackerel and vinegared kelp. Named battera taken from the Portuguese bateria or small boat.

Battera zushi - A type of box sushi using mackerel and vinegared kelp. Named battera taken from the Portuguese bateria or small boat.

Funa zushi – Ancient style sushi in Shiga Prefecture

Kitsune udon – Hot udon with sweet aburaage which is popular in Osaka

Okonomiyaki – Savory pancakes with cabbage, meat or seafood, flavored with Japanese worcestershire sauce and mayonnaise. Osaka style – Ingredients are mixed into the batter before grilling. Has now spread nationwide Hiroshima style – Made out of layers of batter, cabbage, toppings, yakisoba and fried egg

Osaka style – Ingredients are mixed into the batter before grilling. Has now spread nationwide

Hiroshima style – Made out of layers of batter, cabbage, toppings, yakisoba and fried egg

Horumon yaki-udon – Yakiudon with the pluck in Tsuyama, Okayama

Takoyaki – Balls of grilled, savory batter with pieces of octopus inside. Is now popular throughout Japan (Osaka)

Akashiyaki – Prototype of takoyaki balls in Akashi, Hyōgo

Kibi dango – Dango from the Kibi region in Okayama Prefecture

Demi-Katsu – A katsudon specialty that uses a demiglace sauce (Okayama)

Izumo soba – A type of soba famous in the Izumo area (Shimane Prefecture)

Dote-nabe – A nabemono dish of oysters, tofu and vegetables stewed in a miso-based broth (Hiroshima Prefecture)

Fugu – Famous in Shimonoseki, Yamaguchi Prefecture. Fugu cuisine is also popular in Osaka.

Obanzai – A style of cooking rather than a dish in Kyoto

Shikoku

Katsuo no tataki – Sliced, seared skipjack tuna, or finely chopped skipjack mixed with chopped spring onion and seasoned with rice vinegar (Kōchi Prefecture)

Sanuki udon – Udon is one of the most popular foods in the Sanuki Province, today Kagawa Prefecture, and udon produced here is famous nationwide

Sawachi ryori – Traditionally sashimi, sushi but more recently other foods, presented on a huge plate called "sawachi" (Kōchi)

Shoyumame – Parched broad beans marinaded overnight in a mixture of soy sauce, sugar, mirin and sake (Kagawa Prefecture)

Sudachi – A tiny lime-like citrus, which is mixed, grated and added to fish dishes of the Tokushima area to give any dish the distinctive summertime in Tokushima taste

Kyūshū

Mizutaki – A nabemono dish of chicken and vegetables cooked in broth and served with a ponzu dipping sauce (Fukuoka)

Hakata ramen – Noodles served in a tonkotsu (pork bone stock) soup with unique toppings such as beni shōga (pickled ginger), sesame seeds and picked greens. Yatai stalls in Hakata and Tenjin are well-known. Many restaurants operate a system known as kaedama (替え玉), where customers who have finished eating can ask for cheap additional bundles of noodles to be put in their remaining soup. The noodles are typically thin and straight. Now popular throughout Japan.

Motsunabe – A nabemono dish of beef or pork offal. (Fukuoka)

Mentaiko – Spicy fish eggs (Fukuoka)

Champon – A ramen-like dish of noodles, seafood and vegetables cooked in the same pot (Nagasaki)

Castella – A sweet, rectangular sponge cake, introduced to Nagasaki by the Portuguese in the 16th century, now popular throughout Japan (Nagasaki)

Chicken nanban – Fried battered chicken dipped in a vinegary sauce and served with tartar sauce (Miyazaki Prefecture)

Dango-jiru – A miso or a soy sauce-based soup containing wheat noodles as well as vegetables, shimeji mushrooms and pork.

Kakuni – Pork belly, stewed in sweetened soy-based broth until very soft (Nagasaki and Kagoshima)

Keihan – Chicken soup with rice (Amami Islands).

Tonkotsu – Kagoshima pork ribs simmered in shochu, miso, and black sugar for over five hours. Not to be confused with Tonkotsu ramen.

Tonkotsu ramen – Pork belly and ribs, stewed for several hours alongside konnyaku and daikon in a broth containing miso, brown sugar and shōchū. A popular izakaya and ekiben item in the Kagoshima region.

Sake-zushi – A type of sushi which uses rice flavored with sake instead of the usual rice vinegar. Served in a tub topped with shrimp, sea bream, octopus, shiitake mushrooms, bamboo shoots and shredded omelette.

Toriten – a tempura chicken that can be dipped in a soy sauce based sauce (Ōita Prefecture)

Okinawa

Chanpurū – Okinawan stir fry. Gōyā chanpurū – Bitter melon stir fried with other vegetables, tofu, and either Spam, bacon, thinly sliced pork belly, or canned tuna. Tōfu chanpurū – Firm Okinawan tofu stir-fried with vegetables and Spam, bacon, thinly sliced pork belly, or canned tuna. Naaberaa chanpurū – Chanpurū made with luffa.

Gōyā chanpurū – Bitter melon stir fried with other vegetables, tofu, and either Spam, bacon, thinly sliced pork belly, or canned tuna.

Tōfu chanpurū – Firm Okinawan tofu stir-fried with vegetables and Spam, bacon, thinly sliced pork belly, or canned tuna.

Naaberaa chanpurū – Chanpurū made with luffa.

Rafute – Stewed pork belly.

Soki – Stewed pork ribs.

Okinawa soba – A noodle soup vaguely resembling udon, often topped with soki ("soki-soba").

Naabeeraa nbushi – Miso-flavored luffa stir-fry.

Taco rice (tako-raisu) – Invented in the 1960s. Taco meat served on a bed of rice and lettuce, often served together with tomato, cucumber, cheese and topped off with salsa

Various

Fugu cuisine – Various dishes made from fugu, such as sashimi and nabemono (Yamaguchi Prefecture, northern Kyūshū and Osaka)

Botan nabe – A wild boar nabemono dish (Various locales, but especially the Tanzawa region in Kanagawa Prefecture and Tanba region in Kansai)

Basashi – Horse meat sashimi (Kumamoto area, Matsumoto area and rural Tōhoku)

See also

Meibutsu – literally "famous things"; a popular concept in Japan referring to the fame of certain locales for given foods or products.

References

^ "Japanese Cuisine. Archived 2011-06-25 at the Wayback Machine Thefoodieshandbook.co.uk Archived 2016-02-18 at the Wayback Machine. Accessed July 2011.

^ "Encounter with Kuwana" (PDF) (in English and Japanese). Tourism Division, Industry Promotion Department, City of Kuwana. September 2006. pp. 22–23. Archived from the original (PDF) on 27 May 2011. Retrieved 16 April 2011.

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

# Kaiseki


Kaiseki (懐石) or kaiseki-ryōri (懐石料理) is a traditional multi-course Japanese dinner. The term also refers to the collection of skills and techniques that allow the preparation of such meals and is analogous to Western haute cuisine.

There are two kinds of traditional Japanese meal styles called kaiseki or kaiseki-ryōri. The first, where kaiseki is written as "会席" and kaiseki-ryōri as "会席料理", refers to a set menu of select food served on an individual tray (to each member of a gathering). The second, written as "懐石" and as "懐石料理", refers to the simple meal that the host of a chanoyu gathering serves to the guests before a ceremonial tea, and is also known as cha-kaiseki (茶懐石). The development of nouvelle cuisine was likely inspired by kaiseki principles.

Origin

The kanji characters used to write "kaiseki" (懐石) literally mean "breast-pocket stone". These kanji are thought to have been incorporated by Sen no Rikyū (1522–1591) to indicate the frugal meal served in the austere style of chanoyu (Japanese tea ceremony). The idea came from the practice where Zen monks would ward off hunger by putting warm stones into the front folds of their robes, near their stomachs.

Before these kanji started to be used, the kanji for writing the word were simply ones indicating that the cuisine was for a gathering (会席料理). Both sets of kanji remain in use today to write the word; the authoritative Japanese dictionary 'Kōjien' describes kaiseki (literally, "cuisine for a gathering") as a banquet meal where the main beverage is sake (Japanese rice wine), and the "bosom-stone" cuisine as the simple meal served in chanoyu. To distinguish between the two in speech and, if necessary, in writing, the chanoyu meal may be referred to as "tea" kaiseki or cha-kaiseki.

Modern kaiseki draws on a number of traditional Japanese haute cuisines, notably the following four traditions: imperial court cuisine (有職料理, yūsoku ryōri), from the 9th century in the Heian period; Buddhist cuisine of temples (精進料理, shōjin ryōri), from the 12th century in the Kamakura period; samurai cuisine of warrior households (本膳料理, honzen ryōri), from the 14th century in the Muromachi period; and tea ceremony cuisine (茶懐石, cha kaiseki), from the 15th century in the Higashiyama period of the Muromachi period. All of these individual cuisines were formalized and developed over time, and continue in some form to the present day, but have also been incorporated into kaiseki cuisine. Different chefs weigh these differently – court and samurai cuisine are more ornate, while temple and tea ceremony cuisine are more restrained.

In the present day, kaiseki is a type of art form that balances the taste, texture, appearance, and colors of food. To this end, only fresh seasonal ingredients are used and are prepared in ways that aim to enhance their flavor. Local ingredients are often included as well. Finished dishes are carefully presented on plates that are chosen to enhance both the appearance and the seasonal theme of the meal. Dishes are beautifully arranged and garnished, often with real leaves and flowers, as well as edible garnishes designed to resemble natural plants and animals.

Originally, kaiseki comprised a bowl of miso soup and three side dishes; this is now instead the standard form of Japanese-style cuisine generally, referred to as a セット (setto, "set"). Kaiseki has since evolved to include an appetizer, sashimi, a simmered dish, a grilled dish and a steamed course, in addition to other dishes at the discretion of the chef.

Sakizuke (先附): an appetizer similar to the French amuse-bouche.

Hassun (八寸): the second course, which sets the seasonal theme. Typically one kind of sushi and several smaller side dishes. Traditionally served on a square dish measuring eight sun (寸) on each side.

Mukōzuke (向付): a sliced dish of seasonal sashimi.

Takiawase (煮合): vegetables served with meat, fish or tofu; the ingredients are simmered separately.

Futamono (蓋物): a "lidded dish"; typically a soup.

Yakimono (焼物): flame-grilled food (especially fish).

Su-zakana (酢肴): a small dish used to cleanse the palate, such as vegetables in vinegar; vinegared appetizer.

Suimono (吸い物): a soup, usually a clear broth with few accompaniments.

Hiyashi-bachi (冷し鉢): served only in summer; chilled, lightly cooked vegetables.

Naka-choko (中猪口): another palate-cleanser; may be a light, acidic soup.

Shiizakana (強肴): a substantial dish, such as a hot pot.

Gohan (御飯): Gohan is a rice dish made with seasonal ingredients.

Kō no mono (香の物): seasonal pickled vegetables.

Tome-wan (止椀): a miso-based or vegetable soup served with rice.

Mizumono (水物): a seasonal dessert; may be fruit, confection, ice cream, or cake.

Sakizuke (先附)

Hassun (八寸)

Owan (お椀)

Otsukuri (お造り)

Agemono (揚げ物)

Futamono (蓋物)

Dai no mono (台の物)

Gohan, Kō no mono, Tomewan (御飯・香の物・止椀)

Mizumono (水物)

Cha-kaiseki

This is the meal served in the context of chanoyu (Japanese tea ceremony). It precedes the serving of the tea at a formal tea function (chaji). The basic constituents of a cha-kaiseki meal are the ichijū sansai or "one soup, three side dishes", and the rice, plus the following: suimono, hassun, yutō, and kōnomono. The one soup referred to here is usually suimono (clear soup) or miso soup and the basic three side dishes are the following:

Mukōzuke: foods in a dish arranged on the far side of the meal tray for each guest, which is why it is called mukōzuke (lit., "set to the far side"). Often this might be some kind of sashimi, though not necessarily so. On the near side of the meal tray are arranged the rice and the soup, both in lacquered lidded bowls.

Nimono (煮物): simmered foods, served in individual lidded bowls.

Yakimono: grilled foods (usually some kind of fish), brought out in a serving dish for the guests to serve themselves.

Here under is a description of the additional items mentioned above:

Suimono (吸物): clear soup served in a small lacquered and lidded bowl, to cleanse the palate before the exchange of sake (rice wine) between host and guests. Also referred to as kozuimono (small clear soup) or hashiarai (chopstick rinser).

Hassun: a tray of tidbits from mountain and sea that the guests serve to themselves, accompanying the round of saké (rice wine) shared by host and guests.

Yutō (湯桶): pitcher of hot water having slightly browned rice in it, which the guests serve to themselves.

Kō no mono: pickles that accompany the yutō.

Extra items that may be added to the menu are generally referred to as shiizakana and these attend further rounds of sake. Because the host leaves them with the first guest, they are also referred to as azukebachi (lit., "bowl left in another's care").

Casual kaiseki

Casual kaiseki meals theatrically arrange ingredients in dishes and combine rough-textured pottery with fine patterned bowls or plates for effect. The bento box is another casual, common form of popular kaiseki.

Kaiseki locations

Kaiseki is often served in ryokan in Japan, but it is also served in small restaurants, known as ryōtei (料亭). Kyoto is well known for its kaiseki, as it was the home of the imperial court and nobility for over a millennium. In Kyoto, kaiseki-style cooking is sometimes known as Kyoto cooking (京料理, kyō-ryōri), to emphasize its traditional Kyoto roots, and includes some influence from traditional Kyoto home cooking, notably obanzai (おばんざい), the Kyoto term for sōzai [ja] (惣菜) or okazu (おかず).

Kaiseki is often very expensive – kaiseki dinners at top traditional restaurants generally cost from 5,000 yen to upwards of 40,000 per person, without drinks. Cheaper options are available, notably lunch (from around 4,000 to 8,000 yen (US$37 to $74), and in some circumstances bento (around 2,000 to 4,000 yen (US$18 to $37)). In some cases counter seating is cheaper than private rooms. At ryokan, the meals may be included in the price of the room or optional, and may be available only to guests, or served to the general public (some ryokan are now primarily restaurants). Traditional menu options offer three price levels, Sho Chiku Bai (traditional trio of pine, bamboo, and plum), with pine being most expensive, plum least expensive; this is still found at some restaurants.

See also

Japan portal

Food portal

Honzen-ryōri

Shōjin-ryōri

References

^ Bourdain, Anthony (2001). A Cook's Tour: Global Adventures in Extreme Cuisines. New York: Ecco. ISBN 0-06-001278-1.

^ a b Kenkyusha's New Japanese-English Dictionary, ISBN 4-7674-2015-6

^ Japanese Kōjien dictionary

^ McCarron, Meghan (7 September 2017). "The Japanese Origins of Modern Fine Dining". Eater. Vox Media. Retrieved 11 September 2017.

^ Rosner, Helen (11 March 2019). "The Female Chef Making Japan's Most Elaborate Cuisine Her Own". The New Yorker. Conde Nast. Retrieved 10 March 2019.

^ "From kaiseki 会席 to kaiseki 懐石: The Development of Formal Tea Cuisine" in Chanoyu Quarterly 50

^ a b Furiya, Linda (2000-05-17). "The Art of Kaiseki". The San Francisco Chronicle. Archived from the original on November 3, 2007. Retrieved 2007-07-17.

^ "Welcome to Kyoto - Kaiseki Ryori -". Archived from the original on 2007-08-27. Retrieved 2007-07-17.

^ Baker, Aryn (2007-06-14). "Kaiseki: Perfection On a Plate". Time. Archived from the original on June 17, 2007. Retrieved 2007-07-17.

^ a b Brenner, Leslie; Michalene Busico (2007-05-16). "The fine art of kaiseki". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on February 17, 2009. Retrieved 2007-07-17.

^ Murata, Yoshihiro; Kuma, Masashi; Adrià, Ferran (2006). Kaiseki: the exquisite cuisine of Kyoto's Kikunoi Restaurant. Kodansha International. p. 13. ISBN 4-7700-3022-3.

^ Tsuji Kiichi. Tsujitome Cha-kaiseki, Ro-hen in the series Chanoyu jissen kōza. Tankosha, 1987.

^ Kyoto-ryori, Kansai Food Page

Further reading

Murata, Yoshihiro. Kaiseki: The Exquisite Cuisine of Kyoto's Kikunoi Restaurant. Tokyo: Kodansha International, 2006. ISBN 4770030223. OCLC 67840174.

Tsuji, Kaichi. Kaiseki: Zen Tastes in Japanese Cooking. Kodansha International, 1972; second printing, 1981.

Tsutsui, Hiroichi. "From kaiseki 会席 to kaiseki 懐石: The Development of Formal Tea Cuisine". Chanoyu Quarterly no. 50 (Urasenke Foundation, 1987).

External links

Furiya, Linda (2000-05-17). "The Art of Kaiseki". San Francisco Chronicle. Archived from the original on November 3, 2007. Retrieved 2007-07-17.

"Welcome to Kyoto - Kaiseki Ryori -". Archived from the original on 2007-08-27. Retrieved 2007-07-17.

Images of Kaiseki on Flickr

Kyoto Travel Guide—Lists of Kyo Kaiseki Restaurants in Kyoto

Chahan

Curry Katsu curry

Katsu curry

Glutinous

Hatsuga genmai

Donmono Chūkadon Gyūdon Katsudon Oyakodon Tekkadon Tenshindon Unadon

Chūkadon

Gyūdon

Katsudon

Oyakodon

Tekkadon

Tenshindon

Unadon

Hayashi rice

Onigiri Tenmusu

Tenmusu

Omurice

Sushi History Sustainable

History

Sustainable

Sekihan

Takikomi

Harusame

Hiyamugi

Hiyashi chūka

Ramen Champon Kagoshima Muroran curry Tantan-men Tonkotsu Tsukemen

Champon

Kagoshima

Muroran curry

Tantan-men

Tonkotsu

Tsukemen

Shirataki

Okinawa soba Soki

Sōmen Salad

Udon Yakiudon

Yakiudon

Yakisoba

Monjayaki

Okonomiyaki Hirayachi

Hirayachi

Takoyaki

Melonpan

Milk bread

Yudane

Agedashi dōfu

Agemono Furai Karaage Korokke Kushikatsu Satsuma-age Tempura

Karaage

Korokke

Kushikatsu

Satsuma-age

Tempura

Chawanmushi

Chikuzenni

Kabayaki

Kakuni

Kushiyaki

Nabemono

Namasu

Nikujaga

Onsen tamago

Sashimi Fugusashi

Fugusashi

Shabu-shabu

Shiokara

Sukiyaki

Tamagoyaki

Tokoroten

Tonkatsu

Tororo

Tsukemono Nukazuke Takuan

Nukazuke

Takuan

Tsukudani

Tsukune

Yakiniku

Yakitori

Tonjiru

Kenchin-jiru

Miso soup

Suimono [ja]

Bento Ekiben Kyaraben Makunouchi Wappameshi

Ekiben

Kyaraben

Makunouchi

Wappameshi

Honzen-ryōri

Jūbako

Kaiseki

Osechi

Sake Amazake Nigori Toso

Amazake

Nigori

Shōchū Awamori Habushu Umeshu

Awamori

Habushu

Umeshu

Green tea History Bancha Gyokuro Hōjicha Kabuse Kukicha Matcha Matcha latte Sencha Uji

History

Bancha

Gyokuro

Hōjicha

Kabuse

Kukicha

Matcha Matcha latte

Matcha latte

Sencha

Herbal teas Genmaicha Sobacha Kombu-cha Mugicha

Genmaicha

Sobacha

Kombu-cha

Mugicha

Ramune

Aojiru

C.C. Lemon

Calpis

Canned coffee Boss Georgia

Georgia

Energy drinks Lipovitan Oronamin C

Lipovitan

Oronamin C

Sports drinks Aquarius Pocari Sweat

Aquarius

Pocari Sweat

Yakult

Amanattō

Botan Rice Candy

Daifuku

Dango Chichi Kibi

Chichi

Dorayaki

Karukan

Konpeitō

Mochi Agemochi Goheimochi Kankoro Kuzumochi Zunda-mochi

Agemochi

Goheimochi

Kankoro

Kuzumochi

Zunda-mochi

Senbei Arare

Shiruko

Taiyaki

Warabimochi

Square watermelon

Yubari King

Ruby Roman

Shine Muscat

Aonori

Bamboo shoot

Beni shōga

Burdock

Daikon Sakurajima

Sakurajima

Fish Kamaboko Mentaiko / tarako Surimi Tobiko

Kamaboko

Mentaiko / tarako

Surimi

Tobiko

Hijiki

Kanzuri

Karashi

Katsuobushi

Konnyaku

Kuromitsu

Kuzuko

Mayonnaise

Mushrooms Enokitake Matsutake Shiitake

Enokitake

Matsutake

Shiitake

Sake kasu

Sansyō

Sauce Ponzu Soy Tare Tonkatsu Worcestershire

Tonkatsu

Worcestershire

Sesame oil

Shichimi

Tenkasu

Umeboshi

Wasabi

Yuzu Yuzu koshō

Yuzu koshō

Chawan

Chopsticks

Kitchen knife Deba bōchō Gyuto Maguro bōchō Nakiri bōchō Santoku Sashimi bōchō Usuba bōchō Yanagi ba

Deba bōchō

Maguro bōchō

Nakiri bōchō

Santoku

Sashimi bōchō

Usuba bōchō

Yanagi ba

Rice cooker

Shamoji

Suribachi

Dishes Ramen Soups and stews

Soups and stews

Sushi and sashimi ingredients

Chinmi

Ichijū-sansai

Itameshi

Omakase

Teppanyaki

Tokusanhin

Teriyaki

Customs and etiquette

Okinawan cuisine

Category

# Sushi


Vinegared rice

Cookbook: Sushi

Media: Sushi

Sushi (すし, 寿司, 鮨, 鮓; pronounced [sɯɕiꜜ] or [sɯꜜɕi] ⓘ) is a traditional Japanese dish made with vinegared rice (鮨飯, sushi-meshi), typically seasoned with sugar and salt, and combined with a variety of ingredients (ねた, neta), such as seafood, vegetables, or meat; raw seafood is the most common, although some may be cooked. While sushi has numerous styles and presentations, the current defining component is the vinegared rice, also known as shari (しゃり), or sumeshi (酢飯).

The modern form of sushi is believed to have been created by Hanaya Yohei, who invented nigiri-zushi, the most commonly recognized type today, in which seafood is placed on hand-pressed, vinegared rice. This innovation occurred around 1824 in the Edo period (1603–1867). It was the fast food of the chōnin class in the Edo period.

Sushi is traditionally made with medium-grain white rice, although it can also be prepared with brown rice or short-grain rice. It is commonly prepared with seafood, such as squid, eel, yellowtail, salmon, tuna, or imitation crab meat (surimi). Certain types of sushi are vegetarian. It is often served with pickled ginger (gari), wasabi, and soy sauce. Daikon radish or pickled daikon (takuan) are popular garnishes for the dish.

Sushi is sometimes confused with sashimi, a dish that consists of thinly sliced raw fish or occasionally meat, without sushi rice. Today, sushi is considered one of the most popular dishes in the world.

Etymology

The word sushi (寿司; すし) is from Japanese Kanji 鮨. 寿司 is ateji.

History

Narezushi

A dish known as narezushi (馴れ寿司, 熟寿司), "matured fish", stored in fermented rice for possibly months at a time, has been cited as one of the early influences for the Japanese practice of applying rice on raw fish. The fish was fermented with rice vinegar, salt, and rice, after which the rice was discarded. Narezushi is also called honnare, meaning "fully fermented", as opposed to namanare, meaning "partially fermented", a type of sushi that appeared in the Muromachi period.

Fermented fish using rice, such as narezushi, originated in Southeast Asia, where it was made to preserve freshwater fish, possibly in the Mekong River basin, which is now Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, and Vietnam, and in the Irrawaddy River basin, which is now Myanmar. The first mention of a narezushi-like food is in a Chinese dictionary thought to be from the fourth century, in this instance referring to salted fish that had been placed in cooked or steamed rice, which caused it to undergo a fermentation process via lactic acid. Fermentation methods following similar logic in other Asian rice cultures include burong isda, balao-balao, and tinapayan of the Philippines; pekasam of Indonesia and Malaysia; padaek (ປາແດກ) of Laos; pla ra (ปลาร้า) of Thailand; sikhae (식해) of Korea; and mắm of Vietnam.

The lacto-fermentation of the rice prevents the fish from spoiling. When wet-field rice cultivation was introduced during the Yayoi period, lakes and rivers would flood during the rainy season and fish would get caught in the rice paddy fields. Pickling was a way to preserve the excess fish and guarantee food for the following months, and narezushi became an important source of protein for Japanese consumers. The term sushi literally means "sour-tasting", as the overall dish has a sour and umami or savory taste. The term comes from an antiquated し shi terminal-form conjugation, no longer used in other contexts, of the adjectival verb sui (酸い, "to be sour"), resulting in the term sushi (酸し). Narezushi still exists as a regional specialty, notably as funa-zushi from Shiga Prefecture.

In the Yōrō Code (養老律令, Yōrō-ritsuryō) of 718, the characters for "鮨" and "鮓" are written as a tribute to the Japanese imperial court, and although there are various theories as to what exactly this food was, it is possible that it referred to narezushi.

Namanare

Until the early 19th century, sushi slowly changed with Japanese cuisine. The Japanese started eating three meals a day, rice was boiled instead of steamed, and of large importance was the development of rice vinegar.

During the Muromachi period (1336–1573), the Japanese invented a style of sushi called namanare or namanari (生成, なまなれ, なまなり), which means "partially fermented". The fermentation period of namanare was shorter than that of the earlier narezushi, and the rice used for fermentation was also eaten with the fish. In other words, with the invention of namanare, sushi changed from a preserved fish food to a food where fish and rice are eaten together. After the appearance of namanare, sake and sake lees were used to shorten fermentation, and vinegar was used in the Edo period.

Hayazushi

During the Edo period (1603–1867), a third type of sushi, haya-zushi (早寿司, 早ずし, "fast sushi"), was developed. Haya-zushi differed from earlier sushi in that instead of lactic fermentation of rice, vinegar, a fermented food, was mixed with rice to give it a sour taste so that it could be eaten at the same time as the fish. Previously, sushi had evolved with a focus on shortening the fermentation period, but with the invention of haya-zushi, which is simply mixed with vinegar, the fermentation process was eliminated and sushi became a fast food. Many types of sushi known in the world today, such as chirashizushi (散らし寿司, "scattered sushi"), inarizushi (稲荷寿司, "Inari sushi"), makizushi (巻寿司, "rolled sushi"), and nigirizushi (握り寿司, "hand-pressed sushi"), were invented during this period, and they are a type of haya-zushi. Each region utilizes local flavors to produce a variety of sushi that has been passed down for many generations. A 1689 cookbook describes haya-zushi, and a 1728 cookbook describes pouring vinegar over hako-zushi (箱ずし, "box sushi") (square sushi made by filling a wooden frame with rice).

Today's style of nigirizushi (握り寿司, "hand-pressed sushi"), consisting of an oblong mound of rice with a slice of fish draped over it, became popular in Edo (contemporary Tokyo) in the 1820s or 1830s. One common story of the origin of nigirizushi is of the chef Hanaya Yohei (1799–1858), who invented or perfected the technique in 1824 at his shop in Ryōgoku. The nigirizushi of this period was somewhat different from modern nigirizushi. The sushi rice of this period was about three times the size of today's nigirizushi. The amount of vinegar used was half that of today's sushi, and the type of vinegar developed during this period, called aka-su (赤酢, "red vinegar"), was made by fermenting sake lees. They also used slightly more salt than in modern times instead of sugar. Seafood served over rice was prepared in a variety of ways. This red vinegar was developed by Nakano Matazaemon (中野 又佐衛門), who is the founder of Mizkan, a company that still develops and sells vinegar and other seasonings today.

The dish was originally termed Edomae zushi as it used freshly caught fish from the Edo-mae (Edo or Tokyo Bay); the term Edomae nigirizushi is still used today as a by-word for quality sushi, regardless of its ingredients' origins.

Conveyor belt sushi

In 1958, Yoshiaki Shiraishi opened the first conveyor belt sushi restaurant (回転寿司, kaiten-zushi) named "Genroku Zushi" in Higashi-Osaka. Conveyor belt sushi is a casual and affordable type of sushi restaurant .

Conveyor belts are typically installed along tables or counters in the restaurant and are used to carry plates of sushi past diners, who can choose to take whatever they want . Generally, the bill is based on the number of sushi plates, with different colors representing a particular price.

When Genroku Sushi opened a restaurant at the Japan World Exposition, Osaka, 1970, it won an award at the expo, and conveyor belt sushi restaurants became known throughout Japan. In 1973, an automatic tea dispenser was developed, which is now used in conveyor belt sushi restaurants today. When the patent for conveyor belt sushi restaurants expired, a chain of conveyor belt sushi restaurants was established, spreading conveyor belt sushi throughout Japan and further popularizing and lowering the price of sushi. By 2021, the conveyor belt sushi market had grown to 700 billion yen and spread outside Japan.

Sushi in English

The earliest written mention of sushi in English described in the Oxford English Dictionary is in an 1893 book, A Japanese Interior, where it mentions sushi as "a roll of cold rice with fish, sea-weed, or some other flavoring". There is an earlier mention of sushi in James Hepburn's Japanese–English dictionary from 1873, and an 1879 article on Japanese cookery in the journal Notes and Queries. Despite common misconception among English speakers, sushi does not mean "raw seafood."

The common ingredient in all types of sushi is vinegared sushi rice. Fillings, toppings, condiments, and preparation vary widely.

Due to rendaku consonant mutation, sushi is pronounced with zu instead of su when a prefix is attached, as in nigirizushi.

Chirashizushi

Chirashizushi (ちらし寿司, "scattered sushi"; also referred to as barazushi) serves the rice in a bowl and tops it with a variety of raw fish and vegetable garnishes. It is popular because it is filling, fast, and easy to make. It is eaten annually on Hinamatsuri in March and Children's Day in May.

Edomae chirashizushi (Edo-style scattered sushi) is served with uncooked ingredients in an artful arrangement.

Gomokuzushi (Kansai-style sushi) consists of cooked or uncooked ingredients mixed in the body of rice.

Sake-zushi (Kyushu-style sushi) uses rice wine over vinegar in preparing the rice and is topped with shrimp, sea bream, octopus, shiitake mushrooms, bamboo shoots, and shredded omelette.

Inarizushi

Inarizushi

Inarizushi (稲荷寿司) is a pouch of fried tofu typically filled with sushi rice alone. According to Shinto lore, inarizushi is named after the god Inari. Foxes, messengers of Inari, are believed to have a fondness for fried tofu and in some regions an Inari-zushi roll has pointed corners that resemble fox ears, thus reinforcing the association. The shape of Inarizushi varies by region. Inarizushi usually has a rectangular shape in Kantō region and a triangle shape in the Kansai region.

Regional variations include pouches made from a thin omelette (帛紗寿司, fukusa-zushi or 茶巾寿司, chakin-zushi), instead of fried tofu. It should not be confused with inari maki, a sushi roll filled with seasoned fried tofu.

Cone sushi is a variant of inarizushi originating in Hawaii that may include green beans, carrots, gobo, or poke along with rice, wrapped in a triangular abura-age piece. It is often sold in okazu-ya (Japanese delis) and as a component of bento boxes.

Makizushi

Makizushi (巻き寿司, "rolled sushi"), norimaki (海苔巻き, "nori roll"; used generically for other dishes as well) or makimono (巻物, "variety of rolls") is a cylindrical piece formed with the help of a mat known as a makisu (巻き簾). Makizushi is generally wrapped in nori (seaweed) but is occasionally wrapped in a thin omelette, soy paper, cucumber, or shiso (perilla) leaves. Makizushi is often cut into six or eight pieces, constituting a single roll order. Short-grain white rice is usually used, although short-grain brown rice, like olive oil on nori, is now becoming more widespread among the health-conscious. Rarely, sweet rice is mixed in makizushi rice.

Nowadays, the rice in makizushi can be many kinds of black rice, boiled rice, and cereals. Besides the common ingredients listed above, some varieties may include cheese, spicy cooked squid, yakiniku, kamaboko, lunch meat, sausage, bacon or spicy tuna. The nori may be brushed with sesame oil or sprinkled with sesame seeds. In a variation, sliced pieces of makizushi may be lightly fried with egg coating.

Below are some common types of makizushi, but many other kinds exist.

Futomaki (太巻, "thick, large, or fat rolls") is a large, cylindrical style of sushi, usually with nori on the outside. A typical futomaki is five to six centimeters (2 to 2+1⁄2 in) in diameter. They are often made with two, three, or more fillings that are chosen for their complementary tastes and colors. Futomaki are often vegetarian, and may use strips of cucumber, kampyō gourd, takenoko (bamboo shoots), or lotus root. Strips of tamagoyaki omelette, tiny fish roe, chopped tuna, and oboro whitefish flakes are typical non-vegetarian fillings. Traditionally, the vinegared rice is lightly seasoned with salt and sugar. Popular proteins are fish cakes, imitation crab meat, egg, tuna, or shrimp. Vegetables usually include cucumber, lettuce, and takuan (沢庵, pickled radish).

Tamago makizushi (玉子巻き寿司) is makizushi is wrapped in a thin omelet.

Tempura makizushi (天ぷら 巻き寿司) or agezushi (揚げ寿司ロール) is a fried version of the dish.

During the evening of the festival of Setsubun (節分), it is traditional in the Kansai region to eat a particular kind of futomaki in its uncut cylindrical form, called ehōmaki (惠方巻, "lucky direction roll"). By 2000 the custom had spread to all of Japan. Ehōmaki is a roll composed of seven ingredients considered to be lucky. The typical ingredients include kanpyō, egg, eel, and shiitake mushroom. Ehōmaki often include other ingredients too. People usually eat the ehōmaki while facing the direction considered to be auspicious that year.

Hosomaki (細巻, "thin rolls") is a type of small cylindrical sushi with nori on the outside. A typical hosomaki has a diameter of about 2.5 centimeters (1 in). They generally contain only one filling, often tuna, cucumber, kanpyō, nattō, umeboshi paste, and squid with shiso (Japanese herb). Kappamaki (河童巻) is a kind of hosomaki filled with cucumber. It is named after the Japanese legendary water imp, fond of cucumbers, called the kappa. Traditionally, kappamaki is consumed to clear the palate between eating raw fish and other kinds of food so that the flavors of the fish are distinct from the tastes of other foods. Tekkamaki (鉄火巻) is a kind of hosomaki filled with raw tuna. Although it is believed that the word tekka, meaning "red hot iron", alludes to the color of the tuna flesh or salmon flesh, it actually originated as a quick snack to eat in gambling dens called tekkaba (鉄火場), much like the origins of the sandwich. Negitoromaki (ねぎとろ巻) is a kind of hosomaki filled with negitoro, also known as scallion (negi) and chopped tuna (toro). Fatty tuna is often used in this style. Tsunamayomaki (ツナマヨ巻) is a kind of hosomaki filled with canned tuna tossed with mayonnaise.

Kappamaki (河童巻) is a kind of hosomaki filled with cucumber. It is named after the Japanese legendary water imp, fond of cucumbers, called the kappa. Traditionally, kappamaki is consumed to clear the palate between eating raw fish and other kinds of food so that the flavors of the fish are distinct from the tastes of other foods.

Tekkamaki (鉄火巻) is a kind of hosomaki filled with raw tuna. Although it is believed that the word tekka, meaning "red hot iron", alludes to the color of the tuna flesh or salmon flesh, it actually originated as a quick snack to eat in gambling dens called tekkaba (鉄火場), much like the origins of the sandwich.

Negitoromaki (ねぎとろ巻) is a kind of hosomaki filled with negitoro, also known as scallion (negi) and chopped tuna (toro). Fatty tuna is often used in this style.

Tsunamayomaki (ツナマヨ巻) is a kind of hosomaki filled with canned tuna tossed with mayonnaise.

Temaki (手巻, "hand roll") is a large cone-shaped style of sushi with nori on the outside and the ingredients spilling out the wide end. A typical temaki is about 10 centimeters (4 in) long and is eaten with the fingers because it is too awkward to pick it up with chopsticks. For optimal taste and texture, temaki must be eaten quickly after being made because the nori cone soon absorbs moisture from the filling and loses its crispness, making it somewhat difficult to bite through. For this reason, the nori in pre-made or take-out temaki is sealed in plastic film, which is removed immediately before eating.

Makizushi topped with tobiko

Makizushi in preparation

Futomaki

Temaki

Kappamaki

Nattōmaki

Tekkamaki

Ehōmaki

Modern narezushi

Narezushi (熟れ寿司, "matured sushi") is a traditional form of fermented sushi. Skinned and gutted fish are stuffed with salt, placed in a wooden barrel, doused with salt again, then weighed down with a heavy tsukemonoishi (pickling stone). As days pass, water seeps out and is removed. After six months, this sushi can be eaten, remaining edible for another six months or more.

The most famous variety of narezushi are the ones offered as a specialty dish of Shiga Prefecture, particularly the funa-zushi made from fish of the crucian carp genus, the authentic version of which calls for the use of nigorobuna, a particular locally differentiated variety of wild goldfish endemic to Lake Biwa.

Nigirizushi

Nigirizushi (握り寿司, "hand-pressed sushi") consists of an oblong mound of sushi rice that a chef typically presses between the palms of the hands to form an oval-shaped ball and a topping (the neta) draped over the ball. It is usually served with a bit of wasabi; toppings are typically fish such as salmon, tuna, or other seafood. Certain toppings are typically bound to the rice with a thin strip of nori, most commonly octopus (tako), freshwater eel (unagi), sea eel (anago), squid (ika), imitation crab (kanikama), and sweet egg (tamago).

Gunkanmaki (軍艦巻, "warship roll") (ja:軍艦巻) is a special type of nigirizushi: an oval, hand-formed clump of sushi rice that has a strip of nori wrapped around its perimeter to form a vessel that is filled with some soft, loose or fine-chopped ingredient that requires the confinement of nori such as roe, nattō, oysters, uni (sea urchin roe), sweetcorn with mayonnaise, scallops, and quail eggs. Gunkan-maki was invented at the Ginza Kyubey restaurant in 1941; its invention significantly expanded the repertoire of soft toppings used in sushi.

Temarizushi (手まり寿司, "ball sushi") is a style of sushi made by pressing rice and fish into a ball-shaped form by hand using a plastic wrap.

Oshizushi

Oshizushi (押し寿司, "pressed sushi"), also known as hako-zushi (箱寿司, "box sushi"), is a pressed sushi from the Kansai region, a favorite and specialty of Osaka. A block-shaped piece is formed using a wooden mold, called an oshibako. The chef lines the bottom of the oshibako with the toppings, covers them with sushi rice, and then presses the mold's lid to create a compact, rectilinear block. The block is removed from the mold and then cut into bite-sized pieces. Particularly famous is battera (バッテラ, pressed mackerel sushi) or saba zushi (鯖寿司). In oshizushi, all the ingredients are either cooked or cured, and raw fish is never used. The name battera means "small boat" in Portuguese (bateira), as the sushi molds resembled small boats.

Oshizushi wrapped in persimmon leaves, a specialty of Nara, is known as kakinohazushi (柿の葉寿司).

Seared oshizushi, or aburi oshizushi (炙り押し寿司), is a popular variety invented in Vancouver, British Columbia in 2008. This involves using a butane torch to sear the sushi, which may contain ingredients such as mayonnaise, various sauces, jalapeños, and avocado in addition to typical sushi ingredients such as salmon and mackerel. The variety has since spread to other cities, such as Toronto.

Western-style sushi

The increasing popularity of sushi worldwide has resulted in variations typically found in the Western world but rarely in Japan.

One widespread form of sushi created to suit the Western palate is the California roll, a norimaki which presently almost always uses imitation crab (the original recipe calls for real cooked crab), along with avocado and cucumber. A wide variety of popular rolls (norimaki and uramaki) have evolved since.

The identity of the creator of the California roll is disputed. Several chefs from Los Angeles have been cited as the dish's originators, as well as one chef from Vancouver, British Columbia.

The earliest mention in print of a "California roll" was in the Los Angeles Times and an Ocala, Florida newspaper on November 25, 1979. Less than a month later an Associated Press story credited a Los Angeles chef named Ken Seusa at the Kin Jo sushi restaurant near Hollywood as its inventor. The AP article cited Mrs. Fuji Wade, manager of the restaurant, as its source for the claim.

Others attribute the dish to Ichiro Mashita, another Los Angeles sushi chef from the former Little Tokyo restaurant "Tokyo Kaikan". According to this account, Mashita began substituting the toro (fatty tuna) with avocado in the off-season, and after further experimentation, developed the prototype, back in the 1960s.

Japanese-born chef Hidekazu Tojo, a resident of Vancouver, British Columbia since 1971 is also credited, claiming he created the California roll at his restaurant in the late 1970s. Tojo insists he is the innovator of the "inside-out" sushi, and it got the name "California roll" because its contents of crab and avocado were abbreviated to C.A., which is the abbreviation for the state of California. Because of this coincidence, Tojo was set on the name California Roll. According to Tojo, he single-handedly created the California roll at his Vancouver, British Columbia restaurant, including all the modern ingredients of cucumber, cooked crab, and avocado. In 2016 the Japanese Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries named Tojo a goodwill ambassador for Japanese cuisine.

The common theme in origin stories is that surrounding the roll in rice made it more appealing to western consumers who had never eaten traditional sushi. This innovation led to the eventual creation of countless rolls across North America and the world.[citation needed]

For example, the "Norway roll" is another variant of uramakizushi filled with tamago (omelette), imitation crab and cucumber, rolled with shiso leaf and nori, topped with slices of Norwegian salmon, garnished with lemon and mayonnaise.

Although most Western sushi creations are rare in Japan, a notable exception to this is the use of salmon. The Japanese have eaten salmon since prehistory; however, caught salmon in nature often contains parasites and must be cooked or cured for its lean meat to be edible. On the other side of the world, in the 1960s and 1970s, Norwegian entrepreneurs started experimenting with aquaculture farming. The big breakthrough was when they figured out how to raise salmon in net pens in the sea. Being farm-raised, the Atlantic salmon reportedly showed advantages over the Pacific salmon, such as no parasites, easy animal capture, and higher fat content. With government subsidies and improved techniques, they were so successful in raising fatty and parasite-free salmon they ended up with a surplus. Norway has a small population and limited market; therefore, they looked to other countries to export their salmon. The first Norwegian salmon was imported into Japan in 1980, accepted conventionally, for grilling, not for sushi. Salmon had already been consumed in North America as an ingredient in sushi as early as the 1970s. Salmon sushi did not become widely accepted in Japan until a successful marketing partnership in the late 1980s between Bjørn E. Olsen, a Norwegian businessman tasked with helping the Norwegian salmon industry glut, and the Japanese food supplier Nichirei.

Uramaki

Uramaki (裏巻, "inside-out roll") is a medium-sized cylindrical style of sushi with two or more fillings and was developed as a result of the creation of the California roll, as a method originally meant to hide the nori. Uramaki differs from other makimono because the rice is on the outside and the nori inside. The filling is surrounded by nori, then a layer of rice, and optionally an outer coating of some other ingredients such as roe or toasted sesame seeds. It can be made with different fillings, such as tuna, crab meat, avocado, mayonnaise, cucumber, or carrots.

Examples of variations include the rainbow roll (an inside-out topped with thinly sliced maguro, hamachi, ebi, sake and avocado) and the caterpillar roll (an inside-out topped with thinly sliced avocado). Also commonly found is the "rock and roll" (an inside-out roll with barbecued freshwater eel and avocado with toasted sesame seeds on the outside).

In Japan, uramaki is an uncommon type of makimono; because sushi is traditionally eaten by hand in Japan, the outer layer of rice can be quite difficult to handle with fingers.

In Brazil uramaki and other sushi pieces commonly include cream cheese in their recipe. Although unheard of in Japanese sushi, this is the most common sushi ingredient used in Brazil. Temaki also often contains a large amount of cream cheese and is extremely popular in restaurants.

American-style makizushi

Multiple-filling rolls inspired by futomaki are a more popular type of sushi within the United States and come in variations that take their names from their places of origin. Other rolls may include a variety of ingredients, including chopped scallops, spicy tuna, beef or chicken teriyaki roll, okra, and assorted vegetables such as cucumber and avocado, and the tempura roll, where shrimp tempura is inside the roll or the entire roll is battered and fried tempura-style. In the Southern United States, many sushi restaurants prepare rolls using crawfish. Sometimes, rolls are made with brown rice or black rice, known as forbidden rice, which appear in Japanese cuisine as well.

Per Food and Drug Administration regulations, raw fish served in the United States must be frozen before serving to kill parasites.

Since rolls are often made to order, it is not unusual for the customer to specify the exact ingredients desired (e.g., salmon roll, cucumber roll, avocado roll, tuna roll, shrimp or tuna tempura roll, etc.). Though the menu names of dishes often vary by restaurant, some examples include the following:

Australia

Australian sushi is a thick hand roll made from half a standard sheet of nori. It is similar to futomaki thick rolls but is often served uncut as an on-the-go snack. Typical fillings in Australian sushi include teriyaki chicken, salmon and avocado, tuna, and prawn. Australian California rolls are very different from American California rolls, with the nori wrapping the rice and fillings always on the outside, and no tobiko nor cream cheese.

It is widely available in affordable takeaway joints in Australia. Sushi in Japanese restaurants has existed in Australia since the 1950s, but the first Australian-style sushi only appeared in 1995, in a stall called Sushi-Jin in the Target Centre food court at 246 Bourke Street, Melbourne. The owner, Toshihiro Shindo, started selling takeaway sushi rolls which he adapted to Australian tastes. The store closed in 2008. As of 2024, Japanese cuisine is the most popular cuisine in Australia with sushi as the third overall most popular food item, after hot dogs and pizza.

Canada

Many of the styles seen in the United States are also seen in Canada and their own. Doshi (a portmanteau of donut and sushi) is a donut-shaped rice ball on a deep-fried crab or imitation crab cake topped with sushi ingredients. Maki poutine is similar to makizushi in style except it is topped with cheese curds and gravy and contains duck confit, more cheese curds, and sweet potato tempura. Sushi cake is made of crab meat, avocado, shiitake mushroom, salmon, spicy tuna, and tobiko and served on sushi rice, then torched with spicy mayonnaise, barbecue sauce, and balsamic reduction, and dotted with caper and garlic chips. Sushi pizza is deep-fried rice or crab/imitation crab cake topped with mayonnaise and various sushi ingredients.

Mexico and the Western United States

Sinaloan sushi originated in Sinaloa, Mexico and has been available in the Western United States since 2013.

Similar dishes in Asia

South Korea

Gimbap, similar to makizushi, is an internationally popular convenience food of Korean origin. It consists of gim (the Korean version of nori) rolled around rice seasoned with sesame oil, instead of vinegar, and a variety of ingredients such as vegetables, like danmuji, and meat, like bulgogi.

Ingredients

All sushi has a base of specially prepared rice, complemented with other ingredients. Traditional Japanese sushi consists of rice flavored with vinegar sauce and various raw or cooked ingredients.

Sushi-meshi

Sushi-meshi (鮨飯; also known as su-meshi (酢飯), shari (舎利), or gohan (ご飯)) is a preparation of white, short-grained, Japanese rice mixed with a dressing consisting of rice vinegar, sugar, salt, and occasionally kombu and sake. It must be cooled to room temperature before being used for a sushi filling, or it will get too sticky while seasoned. Traditionally, it is mixed with a hangiri (a round, flat-bottom wooden tub or barrel) and a shamoji (a wooden paddle).

Sushi rice is prepared with short-grain Japanese rice, which has a consistency that differs from long-grain strains such as those from India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Thailand, and Vietnam. The essential quality is its stickiness or glutinousness, although the type of rice used for sushi differs from glutinous rice. Freshly harvested rice (shinmai) typically contains too much water and requires extra time to drain the rice cooker after washing. In some fusion cuisine restaurants, short-grain brown rice and wild rice are also used.

There are regional variations in sushi rice, and individual chefs have their methods. Most of the variations are in the rice vinegar dressing: the Kantō region version of the dressing commonly uses more salt; in Kansai region, the dressing has more sugar.

The dark green seaweed wrappers used in makimono are called nori (海苔). Nori is a type of red algae, typically in the family Bangiaceae, traditionally cultivated in the harbors of Japan. Many different foliose red algae species are cultivated to be used as sushi wrappers, however Pyropia tenera is the most commonly farmed. This species ranks among the top three most commonly cultivated seaweed species in China, Korea, and Japan. Originally, algae was scraped from dock pilings, rolled out into thin, edible sheets, and dried in the sun, similar to making rice paper. Today, the commercial product is farmed, processed, toasted, packaged, and sold in sheets.

The size of a nori sheet influences the size of makimono. A full-size sheet produces futomaki, and a half produces hosomaki and temaki. To produce gunkan and some other makimono, an appropriately sized piece of nori is cut from a whole sheet.

Nori by itself is an edible snack and is available with salt or flavored with teriyaki sauce. The flavored variety, however, tends to be of lesser quality and is not suitable for sushi.

When making fukusazushi, a paper-thin omelet may replace a sheet of nori as the wrapping. The omelet is traditionally made on a rectangular omelet pan, known as a makiyakinabe, and used to form the pouch for the rice and fillings.

The ingredients used inside sushi are called gu and are, typically, varieties of fish. For culinary, sanitary, and aesthetic reasons, the minimum quality and freshness of fish to be eaten raw must be superior to that of fish that is to be cooked. Sushi chefs are trained to recognize important attributes, including smell, color, firmness, and freedom from parasites that may go undetected in a commercial inspection. Commonly used fish are tuna (maguro, shiro-maguro), yellowtail (hamachi), snapper (kurodai), mackerel (saba), and salmon (sake). The most valued sushi ingredient is toro, the fatty cut of the fish. This comes in a variety of ōtoro (often from the bluefin species of tuna) and chūtoro, meaning "middle toro", implying that it is halfway into the fattiness between toro and the regular cut. Aburi style refers to nigiri sushi, where the fish is partially grilled (topside) and partially raw. Most nigiri sushi will have completely raw toppings, called neta.

Other seafoods such as squid (ika), eel (anago and unagi), pike conger (hamo), octopus (tako), shrimp (ebi and amaebi), clam (mirugai, aoyagi and akagai), fish roe (ikura, masago, kazunoko and tobiko), sea urchin (uni), crab (kani), and various kinds of shellfish (abalone, prawn, scallop) are the most popular seafoods in sushi. Oysters are less common, as the taste is thought to not go well with the rice. Kani kama, or imitation crab stick, is commonly substituted for real crab, most notably in California rolls.

Pickled daikon radish (takuan) in shinko maki, pickled vegetables (tsukemono), fermented soybeans (nattō) in nattō maki, avocado, cucumber in kappa maki, asparagus, yam, pickled ume (umeboshi), gourd (kanpyō), burdock (gobo), and sweet corn (sometimes mixed with mayonnaise) are plant products used in sushi.

Tofu, eggs (in the form of slightly sweet, layered omelette called tamagoyaki), and raw quail eggs (as a gunkan-maki topping) are also common.

Condiments

Sushi is commonly eaten with condiments. Sushi may be dipped in shōyu (soy sauce), and is usually flavored with wasabi, a piquant paste made from the grated stem of the Wasabia japonica plant. Japanese-style mayonnaise is a common condiment in Japan on salmon, pork, and other sushi cuts.

The traditional grating tool for wasabi is a sharkskin grater or samegawa oroshi. An imitation wasabi (seiyo-wasabi), made from horseradish, mustard powder, and green dye, is common. It is found at lower-end kaiten-zushi restaurants, in bento box sushi, and at most restaurants outside Japan. If manufactured in Japan, it may be labelled "Japanese Horseradish". The spicy compound in both true and imitation wasabi is allyl isothiocyanate, which has well-known anti-microbial properties. However, true wasabi may contain some other antimicrobials as well.

Gari (sweet, pickled ginger) is eaten in between sushi courses to both cleanse the palate and aid in digestion. In Japan, green tea (ocha) is invariably served together with sushi. Better sushi restaurants often use a distinctive premium tea known as mecha. In sushi vocabulary, green tea is known as agari.

Sushi may be garnished with gobo, grated daikon, thinly sliced vegetables, carrots, radishes, and cucumbers that have been shaped to look like flowers, real flowers, or seaweed salad.

When closely arranged on a tray, different pieces are often separated by green strips called baran or kiri-zasa (切り笹). These dividers prevent the flavors of neighboring pieces of sushi from mixing and help to achieve an attractive presentation. Originally, these were cut leaves from the Aspidistra elatior (葉蘭, haran) and Sasa veitchii (熊笹, kuma-zasa) plants, respectively. Using actual leaves had the added benefit of releasing antimicrobial phytoncides when cut, thereby extending the limited shelf life of the sushi.

Sushi bento boxes are a staple of Japanese supermarkets and convenience stores. As these stores began rising in prominence in the 1960s, the labor-intensive cut leaves were increasingly replaced with green plastic to lower costs. This coincided with the increased prevalence of refrigeration, which extended sushi's shelf life without the need for cut leaves. Today plastic strips are commonly used in sushi bento boxes and, to a lesser degree, in sushi presentations found in sushi bars and restaurants. In store-sold or to-go packages of sushi, the plastic leaf strips are often used to prevent the rolls from coming into early or unwanted contact with the ginger and wasabi included with the dish.

Nutrition

The main ingredients of traditional Japanese sushi—raw fish and rice—are naturally low in fat and high in protein, carbohydrates (from the rice), vitamins, and minerals, as are gari (pickled ginger) and nori (seaweed). Other vegetables wrapped in sushi may also provide additional nutrients.

Health risks

Potential chemical and biological hazards in sushi include environmental contaminants, pathogens, and toxins.

Large marine apex predators such as tuna (especially bluefin) can harbor high levels of methylmercury, one of many toxins of marine pollution. Frequent or significantly large consumption of methylmercury can lead to developmental defects when consumed by certain higher-risk groups, including women who are pregnant or may become pregnant, nursing mothers, and young children. A 2021 study in Catalonia, Spain reported that the estimated exposure to methylmercury in sushi consumption by adolescents exceeded the tolerable daily intake.

A 2011 article reported approximately 18 million people infected with fish-borne flukes worldwide. Such an infection can be dangerous for expecting mothers due to the health risks that medical interventions or treatment measures may pose on the developing fetus. Parasitic infections can have a wide range of health impacts, including bowel obstruction, anemia, liver disease, and more. These illnesses' impact can pose health concerns for the expecting mother and baby.

Sashimi or other types of sushi containing raw fish present a risk of infection by three main types of parasites:

Clonorchis sinensis, a fluke which can cause clonorchiasis

Anisakis, a roundworm which can cause anisakiasis

Diphyllobothrium, a tapeworm which can cause diphyllobothriasis

For these reasons, EU regulations forbid using raw fish that had not previously been frozen. It must be frozen at temperatures below −20 °C (−4 °F) in all product parts for no less than 24 hours. Fish for sushi may be flash frozen on fishing boats and by suppliers to temperatures as low as −60 °C (−76 °F). Super-freezing destroys parasites, and also prevents oxidation of the blood in tuna flesh that causes discoloration at temperatures above −20 °C (−4 °F).

Calls for stricter analysis and regulation of seafood include improved product description. A 2021 DNA study in Italy found 30%–40% of fish species in sushi incorrectly described.

Some forms of sushi, notably those containing the fugu pufferfish and some kinds of shellfish, can cause severe poisoning if not prepared properly. Fugu consumption, in particular, can be fatal. Fugu pufferfish have a lethal dose of tetrodotoxin in their internal organs and, by law in many countries, must be prepared by a licensed fugu-chef who has passed the prefectural examination in Japan. Licensing involves a written test, a fish-identification test, and a practical test that involves preparing the fugu and separating out the poisonous organs; only about 35 percent of applicants pass.

Sustainable sushi

Sustainable sushi is made from fished or farmed sources that can be maintained or whose future production does not significantly jeopardize the ecosystems from which it is acquired.

Presentation

Traditionally, sushi is served on minimalist Japanese-style plates—often made of wood or lacquer—and arranged to emphasize clean lines, open space, and a sense of tranquility, reflecting the aesthetic principles of Japanese cuisine.

Many sushi restaurants offer fixed-price sets selected by the chef from the catch of the day. These are often graded as shō-chiku-bai (松竹梅), shō/matsu (松, pine), chiku/take (竹, bamboo), and bai/ume (梅, plum), with matsu being the most expensive and ume the least expensive. Sushi restaurants often have private booth dining, where guests are asked to remove their shoes and leave them outside the room; however, most sushi bars offer diners a casual experience with an open dining room concept.

Sushi may also be served kaiten zushi (sushi train) style, in which color-coded plates of sushi are placed on a conveyor belt from which diners pick as they please. After finishing, the bill is tallied by counting how many plates of each color have been taken. Newer kaiten zushi restaurants use barcodes or RFID tags embedded in the dishes to manage the time elapsed since each item was prepared.

There is a practice called nyotaimori which entails serving sushi on the naked body of a woman.

Glossary

Some specialized or slang terms are used in the sushi culture. Most of these terms are used only in sushi bars.

Agari: lit. 'Rise up', refers to green tea. Ocha (お茶) in usual Japanese.

Gari: Sweet, pickled and sliced ginger, or sushi ginger (gari). Shōga (生姜) in standard Japanese.

Gyoku: "Jewel". Sweet, cube-shaped omelette. 卵焼, 玉子焼 (Tamagoyaki) in standard Japanese.

Murasaki: "Violet" or "purple" (color). Soy sauce. Shōyu (醤油) in standard Japanese.

Neta: Toppings on nigiri or fillings in makimono. A reversal of the standard Japanese tane (種).

Oaiso: "Compliment". Bill or check. Oaiso may be used in not only sushi bars but also izakaya. Okanjō (お勘定) or chekku (チェック) in standard Japanese.

Otemoto: Chopsticks.7 Otemoto means the nearest thing to the customer seated. Hashi (箸) or ohashi in standard Japanese.

Sabi: Contracted form of wasabi (山葵), also known as Japanese horseradish.

Shari: Vinegar rice or rice. It may originally be from the Sanskrit zaali (शालि) meaning rice,[original research?] or Śarīra. Gohan (ご飯) or meshi (飯) in standard Japanese.

Tsume: Sweet thick sauce mainly made of soy sauce. Nitsume (煮詰め) in standard Japanese.

Etiquette

Unlike sashimi, which is almost always eaten with chopsticks, nigirizushi is traditionally eaten with the fingers, even in formal settings. Although it is commonly served on a small platter with a side dish for dipping, sushi can also be served in a bento, a box with small compartments that hold the various dishes of the meal.

Soy sauce is the usual condiment, and sushi is normally served with a small sauce dish or a compartment in the bento. Traditional etiquette suggests that the sushi is turned over so that only the topping is dipped to flavor it; the rice—which has already been seasoned with rice wine vinegar, sugar, salt, mirin, and kombu—would otherwise absorb too much soy sauce and would fall apart.

Traditionally, the sushi chef will add an appropriate amount of wasabi to the sushi while preparing it, and the diner should not add more. However, today, wasabi is more a matter of personal taste, and even restaurants in Japan may serve wasabi on the side for customers to use at their discretion, even when there is wasabi already in the dish.

Utensils used in making sushi

Gallery

Chu-Toro nigiri (中トロ寿司, Medium fatty tuna)

Salmon roll (巻き鮭)

Kakinoha (柿の葉寿司, persimmon leaf) sushi

Chakin-zushi (茶巾寿司), wrapped in thin omelette

Sushi plate (盛り合わせ)

Ikura gunkan-maki (イクラ軍艦巻き)

Sasa (笹寿司, bamboo leaf) sushi

Unagi (鰻寿司, teriyaki-roasted freshwater eel) sushi

Nigirizushi for sale at a supermarket in Tokyo

Assorted sushi (盛り合わせ)

Assorted Western sushi (盛り合わせ)

Western California roll and tuna roll uramaki (カリフォルニア巻き)

Western spicy tuna hand roll (スパイシーツナロール)

Western spicy shrimp roll (スパイシー海老ロール)

Gari (ginger)

Wasabi

Tamago sushi

Otoro sushi (鮪大トロ寿司)

See also

Food portal

Japan portal

Gimbap, Korean variant of makizushi

Customs and etiquette in Japanese dining

List of sushi and sashimi ingredients

List of sushi restaurants

Nyotaimori, sushi presented on nude female body

Sashimi bōchō, Japanese knife to slice raw fish and seafood

Spam musubi, Hawaiian variant of nigirizushi

Sushi machine

References

^ "Sushi – How-To". FineCooking. May 1, 1998. Archived from the original on November 4, 2019. Retrieved November 4, 2019.

^ "The Mysteries of Sushi – Part 2: Fast Food". Toyo Keizai. May 23, 2015. Archived from the original on September 9, 2017.

^ "When Sushi Became a New Fast Food in Edo". Nippon.com. December 22, 2020. Archived from the original on January 18, 2021.

^ "Sushi". Nihonbashi. Archived from the original on December 28, 2021.

^ "Sashimi vs Sushi – Difference and Comparison | Diffen". www.diffen.com. Archived from the original on June 5, 2019. Retrieved June 5, 2019.

^ "Why the World Can't Get Enough of Sushi". www.dinings.co.uk. Retrieved January 26, 2026.

^ "Sushi is a global favorite cuisine, but is it healthy? What to know". www.usatoday.com. Retrieved January 26, 2026.

^ "寿司". 日本文化いろは事典.

^ "握りずし 始まりは江戸っ子のホットドッグスタンド" [Nigiri sushi started at a hot dog stand in Edo]. Japanese Newspaper of Economy (日本経済新聞). June 9, 2018.

^ a b Lee, Cherl-Ho; Steinkraus, Keith H; Reilly, P.J. Alan (1993). Fish fermentation technology. Tokyo: United Nation University Press. OCLC 395550059.

^ a b c d e Hirofumi Akano. "The evolution of sushi and the power of vinegar". Japan Science and Technology Agency. pp. 201, 202. Archived from the original on February 14, 2023. Retrieved April 4, 2023.

^ Mouritsen, O. G. (2009). SUSHI food for the eye, the body & the soul (2nd ed.). Boston: Springer. p. 15. Bibcode:2009sfeb.book.....M. doi:10.1007/978-1-4419-0618-2. ISBN 978-1-4419-0617-5.

^ Sanchez, Priscilla C. (2008). "Lactic-Acid-Fermented Fish and Fishery Products". Philippine Fermented Foods: Principles and Technology. University of the Philippines Press. p. 264. ISBN 9789715425544.

^ Hill, Amelia (October 8, 2007). "Chopsticks at dawn for a sushi showdown". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on December 17, 2007. Retrieved September 25, 2011.

^ Guerra, M.I. (1994). "Studies on tinapayan, an indigenous fish ferment in Central Mindanao (Philippines)". AGRIS. 1 (2): 364–365.

^ "Unveiling the origins of sushi: a journey through Vietnam". Tuoi Tre News. May 4, 2024. Retrieved May 10, 2024.

^ 1988, 国語大辞典（新装版） (Kokugo Dai Jiten, Revised Edition) (in Japanese), Tōkyō: Shogakukan

^ Kouji Itou; Shinsuke Kobayashi; Tooru Ooizumi; Yoshiaki Akahane (2006). "Changes of proximate composition and extractive components in narezushi, a fermented mackerel product, during processing". Fisheries Science. 72 (6): 1269–1276. Bibcode:2006FisSc..72.1269I. doi:10.1111/j.1444-2906.2006.01285.x. ISSN 0919-9268. S2CID 24004124.

^ a b Bestor, Theodore C. (July 13, 2004). Tsukiji: The Fish Market at the Center of the World. University of California Press. p. 141. ISBN 9780520923584.

^ 握りずし 始まりは江戸っ子のホットドッグスタンド (in Japanese). Nikkei, Inc. June 9, 2018. Archived from the original on October 28, 2020. Retrieved April 4, 2023.

^ Mpritzen, Ole G. (2009). Sushi: Food for the Eye, the Body and the Soul. Springer Science-Business Media. p. 15.

^ Lowry, Dave (2010). The Connoisseur's Guide to Sushi. ReadHowYouWant.com. p. xvii. ISBN 978-1458764140. Archived from the original on June 17, 2021. Retrieved November 1, 2020. A nugget of rice was seasoned with vinegar and topped by a sliver of seafood fresh from the bay that was only a few blocks away. That is why a synonym for nigiri sushi is Edomae sushi: Edomae is "in front of Edo," i.e., the bay.

^ Mouritsen, Ole G. (2009). Sushi: Food for the Eye, the Body and the Soul. Springer. p. 17. ISBN 978-1441906182. Archived from the original on June 17, 2021. Retrieved November 1, 2020. Edomae-zushi or nigiri-zushi? Nigiri-zushi is also known as Edomae-zushi. Edomae refers to the small bay in Edo in front of the old palace that stood on the same site as the present-day imperial precinct in Tokyo. Fresh fish and shellfish caught in the bay were used locally to make sushi, known as Edomae-zushi. It has, however, been many years since these waters have been a source of seafood. Now the expression Edomae-zushi is employed as a synonym for high-quality nigiri-zushi.

^ "Kaitenzushi (Conveyor Belt Sushi)". www.japan-guide.com. June 1, 2025. Retrieved December 10, 2025.

^ "Kaitenzushi (Conveyor Belt Sushi)". www.japan-guide.com. June 1, 2025. Retrieved December 10, 2025.

^ a b Magnier, Mark (September 2, 2001). "Yoshiaki Shiraishi; Founded Conveyor Belt Sushi Industry". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved February 4, 2016.

^ a b 回転寿司の歴史は半世紀超！回転寿司チェーン、それぞれの特徴は？. 寿司ウォーカー (in Japanese). Sushi walker. February 26, 2023. Archived from the original on February 14, 2024. Retrieved February 14, 2024.

^ a b 回転寿司の歴史 (in Japanese). Genroku Zushi. Archived from the original on December 1, 2023. Retrieved February 14, 2024.

^ "Sushi," Oxford English Dictionary, Second edition, 1989; online version December 2011. Accessed 23 December 2011.

^ Bacon, Alice Mabel (1893). A Japanese interior. Houghton, Mifflin and Company. p. 271. p. 271: "Sushi, a roll of cold rice with fish, sea-weed, or some other flavoring" p. 181: "While we were waiting for my lord and my lady to appear, domestics served us with tea and sushi or rice sandwiches, and the year-old baby was brought in and exhibited." p. 180: "All the sushi that I had been unable to eat were sent out to my kuruma, neatly done in white paper."

^ James Curtis Hepburn, Japanese–English and English–Japanese dictionary, Publisher: Randolph, 1873, 536 pages (page 262)

^ W. H. Patterson, Japanese Cookery, "Notes and Queries," Publisher: Oxford University Press, 1879. (p.263 Archived 2016-02-02 at the Wayback Machine)

^ Mikkelson, Barbara (October 5, 2002). "Sushi Definition". Snopes. Retrieved June 19, 2024.

^ Kawasumi, Ken (2001). The Encyclopedia of Sushi Rolls. Graph-Sha. ISBN 978-4-88996-076-1.

^ Adimando, Stacy (March 18, 2019). "Chirashi is Sushi for the Rest of Us". Saveur. Retrieved October 24, 2022.

^ Smyers, Karen Ann. The Fox and the Jewel: Shared and Private Meanings in Contemporary Japanese Inari Worship (1999), Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, p. 96.

^ "根強い人気のいなり寿司はファストフード". 農林水産省.

^ "Other Sushi Styles". University of Edinburgh. Retrieved October 21, 2025.

^ "Fukusa Zushi". MakeSushi.com. Retrieved October 21, 2025.

^ Ann Kondo Corum, Ethnic Foods of Hawaii (2000). Bess Press: p. 54.

^ Joan Namkoong, Go Home, Cook Rice: A Guide to Buying and Cooking the Fresh Foods of Hawaii (2001). Ness Press: p. 8.

^ a b Ōmae, Kinjirō; Tachibana, Yuzuru (1988). The book of sushi (1st paperback ed.). Tokyo: Kōdansha International. p. 70. ISBN 9780870118661. OCLC 18925025.

^ a b Strada, Judi; Moreno, Mineko Takane (2004). Sushi for dummies. John Wiley & Sons. p. 106. ISBN 978-0-7645-4465-1. Archived from the original on August 19, 2020. Retrieved January 9, 2019. Sliced sushi rolls are traditionally made in three different sizes, or diameters: thin 1-inch rolls (hoso-maki); medium 11⁄2-inch rolls (chu-maki); and thick 2 to 2+1⁄2-inch rolls (futo-maki)."

^ "Setsubun [節分]". Heisei Nippon seikatsu benrichō [平成ニッポン生活便利帳] (in Japanese). Tokyo: Jiyū Kokuminsha. 2012. Archived from the original on August 25, 2007. Retrieved May 26, 2012.

^ "Ehō-maki". Dijitaru daijisen (in Japanese). Tokyo: Shogakukan. 2012. Archived from the original on August 25, 2007. Retrieved May 26, 2012.

^ "Setsubun Ehomaki, Mame-maki and Grilled Sardine". Kyoto Foodie. February 5, 2009. Archived from the original on August 7, 2014. Retrieved January 22, 2015.

^ Andy Bellin (March 2005). "Poker Night in Napa". Food & Wine. Archived from the original on April 6, 2012. Retrieved June 28, 2007.

^ Ryuichi Yoshii, "Tuna rolls (Tekkamaki)" Archived 2016-05-13 at the Wayback Machine, Sushi, p. 48 (1999), Tuttle Publishing, ISBN 962-593-460-X.

^ "Packaging For Temaki Sushi". Gpe.dk. Archived from the original on April 25, 2012. Retrieved November 7, 2012.

^ Hosking, Richard (1997). A Dictionary of Japanese Food: Ingredients & Culture. Tuttle Publishing. p. 222. ISBN 978-0-8048-2042-4. Archived from the original on August 18, 2020. Retrieved December 20, 2015.

^ Lee, Cherl-Ho; Steinkraus, Keith H.; Reilly, P. J. Alan, eds. (1993). "Comparison of Fermented Foods of the East and West". Fish Fermentation Technology. United Nations University Press. p. 17. ISBN 9788970530031. OCLC 29195449. Archived from the original on August 19, 2020. Retrieved March 16, 2018. In Japan, the prototypical form remains mostly around Lake Biwa.

^ Hosking, Richard (1998), "From Lake and Sea. Goldfish and Mantis Shrimp Sushi", Fish: Food from the Waters, Oxford Symposium, pp. 160–161, ISBN 978-0-9073-2589-5, archived from the original on January 10, 2021, retrieved March 16, 2018{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link)

^ Chad Hershler (May 2005). "Sushi Then and Now". The Walrus. Archived from the original on January 14, 2010.

^ (ja) 軍カン巻の由来, お寿し大辞典 > お寿し用語集, 小僧寿しチェーン.

^ Ashkenazi, Michael; Jacob, Jeanne (2000). The essence of Japanese cuisine: an essay on food and culture. University of Pennsylvania Press. p. 231. ISBN 978-0-8122-3566-1. Archived from the original on June 17, 2021. Retrieved October 16, 2020. Called saba zushi or battera, after the Portuguese term for "small boat," which the mold resembles.

^ "Osaka Style Boxed Sushi". Sushi Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on January 16, 2008.

^ "Battera ｜ Our Regional Cuisines : MAFF". www.maff.go.jp. Retrieved May 10, 2024.

^ "The origin of Vancouver's deep love for aburi sushi". The Georgia Straight. October 3, 2018. Retrieved May 29, 2024.

^ "Chef's Table: Seigo Nakamura". NUVO Magazine. Retrieved May 29, 2024.

^ "8 places to enjoy oshi sushi in Vancouver". The Daily Hive. November 30, 2016. Retrieved May 29, 2024.

^ "The best aburi sushi in Toronto". Taste Toronto. Retrieved May 29, 2024.

^ a b Jiang, Jess (September 18, 2015). "How the Desperate Norwegian Salmon Industry Created a Sushi Staple". Planet Money (blog/podcast). All Things Considered. NPR. Archived from the original on April 24, 2019. Retrieved September 19, 2015.

^ Hsin-I Feng, Cindy (February 29, 2012). "The Tale of Sushi: History and Regulations". Comprehensive Reviews in Food Science and Food Safety. 11 (2): 205–220. doi:10.1111/j.1541-4337.2011.00180.x. ISSN 1541-4337.

^ "The History of the California Roll". Michelin Guide. Retrieved October 21, 2025. While many credit Los Angeles chefs with inventing the California roll, some accounts trace its creation to Vancouver-based chef Hidekazu Tojo, who popularized the inside-out roll style for Western palates.

^ a b Smith, Andrew F. (2012). American Tuna: The Rise and Fall of an Improbable Food. University of California Press. pp. 91. and notes 31 and 32.

^ a b "Sushi: The Story of the California Roll". FreshMAG US. Retrieved December 29, 2024.

^ a b Tomicki, Hadley (October 24, 2012). "Will The Real Inventor of The California Roll Please Stand Up?". Grub Street. Retrieved December 29, 2024.

^ a b "The History Of The California Roll | International Drive Japanese Steakhouse And Seafood". www.shogunorlando.com. August 14, 2017. Retrieved December 29, 2024.

^ Austin, Allan W.; Ling, Huping, eds. (2015). Asian American history and culture: an encyclopedia. London New York: Routledge. p. 1265. ISBN 978-1-317-47644-3.

^ Corson, Trevor (2008). The story of sushi: an unlikely saga of raw fish and rice. New York: Perennial. ISBN 978-0-06-088351-5.

^ "Meet the man behind the California roll". The Globe and Mail. October 23, 2012. Retrieved December 29, 2024.

^ "The California Roll Was Invented in Canada | Ghostarchive". ghostarchive.org. Retrieved December 29, 2024.

^ "Vancouver chef Tojo honoured by Japanese government". CBC.ca. The Canadian Press. June 10, 2016.

^ "Norway Roll of Umegaoka Sushi No Midori Sohonten Shibuya". Archived from the original on August 6, 2016. Retrieved May 9, 2016.

^ "Episode 651: The Salmon Taboo". NPR.org. Archived from the original on April 17, 2021. Retrieved April 17, 2021.

^ "How The Desperate Norwegian Salmon Industry Created A Sushi Staple". NPR.org. Archived from the original on April 24, 2019. Retrieved April 17, 2021.

^ Matsui, Akira (June 1, 2005). "Salmon Exploitation in Jomon Archaeology from a Wetlands Point of View". Journal of Wetland Archaeology. 5 (1): 49–63. Bibcode:2005JWetA...5...49M. doi:10.1179/jwa.2005.5.1.49. ISSN 1473-2971. S2CID 140720425. Archived from the original on June 17, 2021. Retrieved April 17, 2021.

^ Sollesnes, Oeystein (March 10, 2018). "The Norwegian campaign behind Japan's love of salmon sushi". The Japan Times. Archived from the original on January 9, 2019. Retrieved January 9, 2019.

^ Norway Exports (April 8, 2011). "Norway's Introduction of Salmon Sushi to Japan". Nortrade. Archived from the original on January 28, 2017. Retrieved September 19, 2015.

^ "Sushi Pioneers". SushiMasters. Archived from the original on April 11, 2013. Retrieved July 26, 2008.

^ "Tradição X modernidade na comida japonesa | O TEMPO". www.otempo.com.br. Archived from the original on June 17, 2021. Retrieved June 17, 2021.

^ Julia Moskin (April 8, 2004). "Sushi Fresh From the Deep. .. the Deep Freeze". The New York Times. Archived from the original on January 6, 2014. Retrieved December 23, 2013. Most would be even more surprised to learn that if the sushi has not been frozen, it is illegal to serve it in the United States. Food and Drug Administration regulations stipulate that fish to be eaten raw – whether as sushi, sashimi, seviche, or tartare – must be frozen first to kill parasites.

^ "Alaska Roll". Sushi Sama. Archived from the original on 18 December 2013. Retrieved 11 December 2013.

^ "Boston Roll Recipe". Sushi Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on October 9, 2014. Retrieved October 15, 2014.

^ "What is a BC Roll?". The Sushi Index. Archived from the original on December 11, 2014. Retrieved December 11, 2013.

^ "California Roll". Sushi Sama. Archived from the original on 18 December 2013. Retrieved 11 December 2013.

^ "Dragon Roll Recipe - Sushi Roll Recipes - Sushi Encyclopedia". June 29, 2013. Archived from the original on June 29, 2013. Retrieved February 26, 2024.

^ "Dynamite Roll Recipe". Japanese Sushi Recipes. Archived from the original on July 13, 2013. Retrieved December 11, 2013.

^ Frisch, Eleanor. "Japanese and Western Types of Sushi". Food Service Warehouse. Archived from the original on November 15, 2013. Retrieved December 11, 2013.

^ De Laurentiis, Giada. "Crab, Avocado and Mango Roll". Food Network. Archived from the original on December 19, 2013. Retrieved December 11, 2013.

^ "Michigan Roll Recipe". The Sushi Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on January 17, 2014. Retrieved December 11, 2013.

^ Romero, David (July 13, 2015). "Green chile prominently featured in sushi roll". KRQE. Archived from the original on May 6, 2016. Retrieved May 16, 2016.

^ Garduño, Gil (October 29, 2011). "I Love Sushi – Albuquerque, New Mexico". Gil's Thrilling (And Filling) Blog. Archived from the original on June 10, 2016. Retrieved May 16, 2016.

^ "Sushi order form". Japanese Kitchen Albuquerque. Archived from the original on February 1, 2016. Retrieved May 16, 2016.

^ "Sushi order form". Nagomi Restaurant ABQ. Archived from the original on May 2, 2016. Retrieved May 16, 2016.

^ "Philadelphia Roll Recipe". Sushi Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on October 28, 2016. Retrieved December 11, 2013.

^ "Spicy Seattle Tuna Rolls". Bon Appetit. July 12, 2011. Archived from the original on March 7, 2014. Retrieved December 11, 2013.

^ "Rainbow Roll Recipe". Sushi Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on June 27, 2013. Retrieved December 11, 2013.

^ Moonen, Rick. "Spider Roll". Food Network. Archived from the original on November 17, 2013. Retrieved December 11, 2013.

^ Kearns, Landess (June 19, 2015). "Sushi Burritos Prove You Really Can Have It All". Huffington Post. Archived from the original on June 27, 2017. Retrieved May 14, 2017.

^ Liaw, Adam (November 23, 2023). "Yes, 'Australian sushi' exists. Get over it, argues Adam Liaw". Good Food. The Sydney Morning Herald. Retrieved September 25, 2024.

^ House, Moriah (June 30, 2024). "What Sets Australian-Style Sushi Apart From The Rest". The Takeout. Retrieved September 25, 2024.

^ Hariharan, Annie (June 23, 2020). "Cheap sushi and bountiful cheese: what stands out about eating in Australia". The Guardian. Retrieved September 25, 2024.

^ O'Connell, Jan (September 28, 1990). "Takeaway sushi in Australia - Australian food history timeline". Australian Food Timeline. Retrieved September 25, 2024.

^ Woodley, Melissa (June 3, 2024). "Australia's favourite cuisine has been revealed – and the results will make you hungry". TimeOut. Retrieved September 25, 2024.

^ Peyton, Gabby (March 16, 2017). "10 questionable things Canada has done to sushi". DailyHIve. Retrieved November 3, 2021.

^ Staff, DH Montreal (March 2, 2017). "You have to try this insane Montreal sushi dish". DailyHIve. Retrieved November 3, 2021.

^ William-Ross, Lindsay (March 10, 2017). "Where to have your Sushi Cake...and eat it, too". DailyHIve. Retrieved November 3, 2021.

^ Chowhound (July 11, 2008). "Sushi Pizza- California specialty?! – General Discussion – Sushi". Chowhound. Archived from the original on November 3, 2021. Retrieved November 3, 2021.

^ Bill Esparza (August 1, 2013), "Oh No, There Goes Tokyo Roll—Sinaloa Style Sushi Invades Los Angeles", Los Angeles Magazine

^ Alexander, Stian (January 21, 2016). "UK's new favourite takeaway has been revealed – and it's not what you'd think". Daily Mirror. Archived from the original on September 26, 2018. Retrieved February 26, 2017.

^ Cho, Joy (January 3, 2021). "Kimbap: Colorful Korean rolls fit for a picnic". Salon. Retrieved July 30, 2021.

^ Zhang, Lishu; et al. (October 13, 2022). "Global seaweed farming and processing in the past 20 years". Food Production, Processing and Nutrition. 4 (23): 2. doi:10.1186/s43014-022-00103-2.

^ Shimbo, Hiroko (November 8, 2000). The Japanese Kitchen: 250 Recipes in a Traditional Spirit. Harvard Common Press. p. 128. ISBN 9781558321779. Archived from the original on June 17, 2021. Retrieved October 16, 2020. Unlike wakame, kombu, and hijiki, which are sold in the form of individual leaves, nori is sold as a sheet made from small, soft, dark brown algae, which have been cultivated in bays and lagoons since the middle of the Edo Era (1600 to 1868). The technique of drying the collected algae on wooden frames was borrowed from the famous Japanese paper-making industry.

^ Pallett, Steven (2004). Simply sushi. Hinkler Books. p. 289. ISBN 9781741219722. Archived from the original on June 17, 2021. Retrieved October 16, 2020.

^ a b Lowry, Dave (2005). The Connoisseur's Guide to Sushi: Everything You Need to Know about Sushi Varieties and Accompaniments, Etiquette and Dining Tips, and More. Harvard Common Press. ISBN 9781558323070. Archived from the original on June 17, 2021. Retrieved October 16, 2020.

^ Smith, Andrew F. (August 8, 2012). American Tuna: The Rise and Fall of an Improbable Food. University of California Press. p. 95. ISBN 9780520261846. - Archived url, live status.

^ Rob Ludacer; Jessica Orwig. "Here's what imitation crab meat is really made of". Business Insider. Archived from the original on June 5, 2019. Retrieved June 5, 2019.

^ Sakagami, Nick (June 4, 2019). Sushi Master: An expert guide to sourcing, making and enjoying sushi at home. Quarry Books. p. 87. ISBN 9781631596735. Archived from the original on June 17, 2021. Retrieved October 16, 2020.

^ Shimbo, Hiroko (2000). The Japanese Kitchen. Harvard Common Press. ISBN 978-1-55832-176-2.

^ Shin, I. S.; Masuda H.; Naohide K. (August 2004). "Bactericidal activity of wasabi (Wasabia japonica) against Helicobacter pylori". International Journal of Food Microbiology. 94 (3): 255–61. doi:10.1016/S0168-1605(03)00297-6. PMID 15246236.

^ Gordenker, Alice (January 15, 2008). "Bento grass". The Japan Times Online. ISSN 0447-5763. Archived from the original on December 10, 2015. Retrieved December 8, 2015.

^ "Culinary Curiosities: That plastic leaf in sushi". CNN. June 21, 2010. Archived from the original on September 26, 2013. Retrieved September 22, 2013.

^ "Sushi". Encyclopaedia Britannica. Retrieved October 21, 2025. Sushi typically combines low-fat fish, vinegared rice, and seaweed, offering a source of protein, carbohydrates, and essential minerals.

^ "Methylmercury: What You Need to Know About Mercury in Fish and Shellfish". Food and Drug Administration. March 1, 2004. Archived from the original on March 17, 2013. Retrieved September 18, 2012.

^ González, N; Correig, E; Marmelo, I; Marques, A; la Cour, R; Sloth, JJ; Nadal, M; Marquès, M; Domingo, JL (July 2021). "Dietary exposure to potentially toxic elements through sushi consumption in Catalonia, Spain". Food and Chemical Toxicology. 153 112285. doi:10.1016/j.fct.2021.112285. hdl:20.500.11797/imarina9216104. PMID 34023460. S2CID 235168607.

^ a b c d Jones, J.L.; Anderson, B.; Schulkin, J.; Parise, M. E.; Eberhard, M. L. (March 1, 2011). "Sushi in Pregnancy, Parasitic Diseases – Obstetrician Survey". Zoonoses and Public Health. 58 (2): 119–125. doi:10.1111/j.1863-2378.2009.01310.x. ISSN 1863-2378. PMID 20042060. S2CID 38590733. Archived from the original on November 6, 2020. Retrieved September 13, 2019.

^ "Clonorchis sinensis – Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS)". Public Health Agency of Canada. February 18, 2011. Archived from the original on September 14, 2012. Retrieved September 18, 2012.

^ "Parasites – Anisakiasis". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. November 2, 2010. Archived from the original on September 25, 2012. Retrieved September 18, 2012.

^ Dugdale, DC (August 24, 2011). "Fish tapeworm". MedlinePlus. Archived from the original on July 4, 2016. Retrieved September 18, 2012.

^ European Parliament (April 30, 2004). "Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 of The European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 laying down specific hygiene rules for on the hygiene of foodstuffs" (PDF). Official Journal of the European Union. 139 (55): 133. Archived from the original on April 20, 2012. Retrieved July 9, 2010.

^ Issenberg, Sasha (2008). The sushi economy: globalization and the making of a modern delicacy. New York: Gotham. ISBN 978-1592403639.

^ Macfarlane, Alex. "The Truth About Sushi Fish". Everything Sushi Blog Interview. Archived from the original on April 24, 2013. Retrieved December 3, 2012.[self-published source]

^ Pappalardo, AM; Raffa, A; Calogero, GS; Ferrito, V (April 2, 2021). "Geographic Pattern of Sushi Product Misdescription in Italy-A Crosstalk between Citizen Science and DNA Barcoding". Foods. 10 (4): 756. doi:10.3390/foods10040756. PMC 8066630. PMID 33918119.

^ Warin, Rosemary H.; Steventon, Glyn B.; Mitchell, Steve C. (2007). Molecules of death. Imperial College Press. p. 390. ISBN 978-1-86094-814-5. Archived from the original on June 17, 2021. Retrieved October 16, 2020.

^ "One Man's Fugu Is Another's Poison". The New York Times. November 29, 1981. Archived from the original on May 24, 2015. Retrieved February 26, 2011.

^ "The Art of Plating: Why Sushi Presentation Matters in Japanese Culture". KuruKuru Sushi Hawaii. Retrieved October 21, 2025. In keeping with minimalist Japanese design, sushi plating avoids clutter. It emphasizes clean lines, open space, and a sense of tranquility.

^ "Kitchen Language: What Is Omakase?". Michelin Guide. Retrieved October 21, 2025. Omakase is a form of Japanese dining in which guests leave themselves in the hands of a chef and receive a seasonal meal using the finest ingredients available.

^ "松・竹・梅のメニュー なぜ真ん中を選んでしまう？". Toshiba Tec (in Japanese). February 26, 2024. Retrieved October 21, 2025. 寿司屋やうなぎ屋などに行くと、「松4,000円」「竹2,500円」「梅1,500円」のように「松・竹・梅」に分かれたメニューを目にすることがあります。

^ "Eating at a Japanese Restaurant". Japan-Guide. June 1, 2025. Retrieved October 21, 2025. In case of zashiki-style seating, you should remove your shoes at the entrance or before stepping onto the sitting area (tatami).

^ "Japanese Restaurants". Japan-Guide. June 1, 2025. Retrieved October 21, 2025. In most sushi-ya, customers can sit either at a normal table or at a counter (sushi bar), behind which the sushi chef is working.

^ "Kaitenzushi (Conveyor Belt Sushi Restaurants)". Japan-Guide. June 1, 2025. Retrieved October 21, 2025. Kaitenzushi restaurants typically use plates of different colors and patterns to indicate their costs.

^ Ngai, E. W. T.; Suk, F. F. C.; Lo, S. Y. Y. (2008). "Development of an RFID-based sushi management system: The case of a conveyor-belt sushi restaurant". International Journal of Production Economics. 112 (2): 630–645. doi:10.1016/j.ijpe.2007.05.006.

^ Bindel, Julie (February 12, 2010). "'I am about to eat sushi off a naked woman's body'". The Guardian. Archived from the original on July 21, 2020. Retrieved August 20, 2020.

^ Danovich, Tove (October 23, 2017). "Is Naked Sushi All About the Nigiri or the Nudity?". VICE. Archived from the original on July 17, 2020. Retrieved August 20, 2020.

^ Lin, Eddie (April 18, 2007). "Selling the Sizzle Even Though It's Sushi". The New York Times. Archived from the original on November 9, 2020. Retrieved August 20, 2020.

^ (in Japanese) Osushiyasan no arukikata お寿司屋さんの歩き方 Archived 2012-02-29 at the Wayback Machine, Retrieved February 2012.

^ (in Japanese) 'Ojisan, oaiso' tsuihō undō 「おじさん、おあいそ」追放運動 Archived 2012-05-09 at the Wayback Machine, Retrieved February 2012.

^ "Japanese Meaning of 煮詰める, 煮つめる, につめる, nitsumeru". Nihongo Master. Archived from the original on February 4, 2020. Retrieved February 4, 2020.

^ Issenberg, Sasha. The Sushi Economy. Gotham Books: 2007

^ a b Honey, Kim (March 18, 2009). "Are you sushi savvy?". Toronto Star. Archived from the original on March 23, 2009. Retrieved November 9, 2009.

^ Lowry, Dave (2005). The Connoisseur's Guide to Sushi. Harvard Common Press. p. 273. ISBN 978-1-55832-307-0.

Further reading

Mitshuhiro Araki, Chieko Asazuma (2004). 江戸前「握り」 (in Japanese). Kobunsha. ISBN 978-4334032319.

Joro Ono, Masuhiro Yamamoto (2014). 鮨 すきやばし次郎: JIRO GASTRONOMY (in Japanese). Shogakukan. ISBN 978-4093883856.

Joro Ono, Masuhiro Yamamoto (2016). 匠 すきやばし次郎: JIRO PHILOSOPHY (in Japanese). Shogakukan. ISBN 978-4093884976.

External links

WikiHow page on making sushi rice

History of sushi

List of sushi and sashimi ingredients

List of sushi restaurants

Sustainable sushi

Gari (ginger)

Hanaya Yohei

Hangiri

Norimaki

Odori ebi

Omakase

Tare sauce

Tobiko

Tofu skin

Wasabi

Conveyor belt sushi

B.C. roll

California roll

Découverte du Sushi

Dynamite roll

Philadelphia roll

Rainbow roll

Seattle roll

Spider roll

Sinaloan sushi

Sushi burrito

Sushi pizza

Category: Sushi

Chahan

Curry Katsu curry

Katsu curry

Glutinous

Hatsuga genmai

Donmono Chūkadon Gyūdon Katsudon Oyakodon Tekkadon Tenshindon Unadon

Chūkadon

Gyūdon

Katsudon

Oyakodon

Tekkadon

Tenshindon

Unadon

Hayashi rice

Onigiri Tenmusu

Tenmusu

Omurice

Sushi History Sustainable

History

Sustainable

Sekihan

Takikomi

Harusame

Hiyamugi

Hiyashi chūka

Ramen Champon Kagoshima Muroran curry Tantan-men Tonkotsu Tsukemen

Champon

Kagoshima

Muroran curry

Tantan-men

Tonkotsu

Tsukemen

Shirataki

Okinawa soba Soki

Sōmen Salad

Udon Yakiudon

Yakiudon

Yakisoba

Monjayaki

Okonomiyaki Hirayachi

Hirayachi

Takoyaki

Melonpan

Milk bread

Yudane

Agedashi dōfu

Agemono Furai Karaage Korokke Kushikatsu Satsuma-age Tempura

Karaage

Korokke

Kushikatsu

Satsuma-age

Tempura

Chawanmushi

Chikuzenni

Kabayaki

Kakuni

Kushiyaki

Nabemono

Namasu

Nikujaga

Onsen tamago

Sashimi Fugusashi

Fugusashi

Shabu-shabu

Shiokara

Sukiyaki

Tamagoyaki

Tokoroten

Tonkatsu

Tororo

Tsukemono Nukazuke Takuan

Nukazuke

Takuan

Tsukudani

Tsukune

Yakiniku

Yakitori

Tonjiru

Kenchin-jiru

Miso soup

Suimono [ja]

Bento Ekiben Kyaraben Makunouchi Wappameshi

Ekiben

Kyaraben

Makunouchi

Wappameshi

Honzen-ryōri

Jūbako

Kaiseki

Osechi

Sake Amazake Nigori Toso

Amazake

Nigori

Shōchū Awamori Habushu Umeshu

Awamori

Habushu

Umeshu

Green tea History Bancha Gyokuro Hōjicha Kabuse Kukicha Matcha Matcha latte Sencha Uji

History

Bancha

Gyokuro

Hōjicha

Kabuse

Kukicha

Matcha Matcha latte

Matcha latte

Sencha

Herbal teas Genmaicha Sobacha Kombu-cha Mugicha

Genmaicha

Sobacha

Kombu-cha

Mugicha

Ramune

Aojiru

C.C. Lemon

Calpis

Canned coffee Boss Georgia

Georgia

Energy drinks Lipovitan Oronamin C

Lipovitan

Oronamin C

Sports drinks Aquarius Pocari Sweat

Aquarius

Pocari Sweat

Yakult

Amanattō

Botan Rice Candy

Daifuku

Dango Chichi Kibi

Chichi

Dorayaki

Karukan

Konpeitō

Mochi Agemochi Goheimochi Kankoro Kuzumochi Zunda-mochi

Agemochi

Goheimochi

Kankoro

Kuzumochi

Zunda-mochi

Senbei Arare

Shiruko

Taiyaki

Warabimochi

Square watermelon

Yubari King

Ruby Roman

Shine Muscat

Aonori

Bamboo shoot

Beni shōga

Burdock

Daikon Sakurajima

Sakurajima

Fish Kamaboko Mentaiko / tarako Surimi Tobiko

Kamaboko

Mentaiko / tarako

Surimi

Tobiko

Hijiki

Kanzuri

Karashi

Katsuobushi

Konnyaku

Kuromitsu

Kuzuko

Mayonnaise

Mushrooms Enokitake Matsutake Shiitake

Enokitake

Matsutake

Shiitake

Sake kasu

Sansyō

Sauce Ponzu Soy Tare Tonkatsu Worcestershire

Tonkatsu

Worcestershire

Sesame oil

Shichimi

Tenkasu

Umeboshi

Wasabi

Yuzu Yuzu koshō

Yuzu koshō

Chawan

Chopsticks

Kitchen knife Deba bōchō Gyuto Maguro bōchō Nakiri bōchō Santoku Sashimi bōchō Usuba bōchō Yanagi ba

Deba bōchō

Maguro bōchō

Nakiri bōchō

Santoku

Sashimi bōchō

Usuba bōchō

Yanagi ba

Rice cooker

Shamoji

Suribachi

Dishes Ramen Soups and stews

Soups and stews

Sushi and sashimi ingredients

Chinmi

Ichijū-sansai

Itameshi

Omakase

Teppanyaki

Tokusanhin

Teriyaki

Customs and etiquette

Okinawan cuisine

Category

Anchovy

Barramundi

Billfish

Catfish

Flatfish

Flounder

Herring

Mackerel

Salmon

Sardine

Sturgeon

Swordfish

Tilapia

Whitebait

Abalone

Cockles

Crayfish

Geoduck

Lobster

Mussels

Oysters

Prawn/Shrimp

Scallops

Sea urchins

Crustaceans

Molluscs

Jellyfish

Marine mammals Whale

Octopus

Sea cucumber

Seaweed

List of seafoods

more...

Caviar

Dried fish

Canned fish

Cod liver oil

Cured fish

Fermented fish

Fish fillet

Fish head

Fish maw

Fish oil

Fish sauce

Fish paste

Fish steak

Fish stock

Lutefisk

Salted fish

Salted squid

Shark liver oil

Shrimp paste

Smoked fish

Stockfish

Surimi

more...

List of seafood dishes

List of crab dishes

List of fish dishes

List of raw fish dishes

List of tuna dishes

Bisque

Chowder

Fish and chips

Fish pie

Fish soup

Fried fish

Seafood boil

Shark fin soup

Sushi bake

more...

Ciguatera

Fish diseases and parasites

Mercury in fish

Metagonimiasis

Scombroid food poisoning

Shellfish poisoning

Seafood mislabelling

Sustainable seafood

Sustainable seafood advisory lists and certification

Declawing of crabs

Eyestalk ablation

Eating live seafood

Goldfish swallowing

Live fish trade

Pain in fish

Pain in crustaceans

Shark finning

Fish preservation

Fish processing

Gathering seafood by hand

History of seafood

History of sushi

List of seafood companies

Pescetarianism

Raw bar

Salmon cannery

Seafood restaurant

Food portal

Category: Seafood

United States

France

BnF data

Czech Republic

Israel

Yale LUX

# Sashimi


Sashimi (刺身; English: /səˈʃiːmi/ sə-SHEE-mee, Japanese: [saɕimiꜜ]) is a Japanese delicacy consisting of fresh raw fish or meat sliced into thin pieces and often eaten with soy sauce.

Origin

The word sashimi means 'pierced body', a combination of 刺し (sashi, pierced, stuck) and 身 (mi, body, meat). This word dates from the Muromachi period (1336–1573)[citation needed] and there are multiple theories as to its etymology:

A possibility for the name is the traditional method of harvesting. "Sashimi-grade" fish is caught by individual handline. As soon as the fish is landed, its brain is pierced with a sharp spike, and it is placed in slurried ice. This spiking is called the ikejime process, and the instant death means that the fish's flesh contains a minimal amount of lactic acid. This means that the fish will keep fresh on ice for longer without turning white or otherwise degrading.

Many non-Japanese use the terms sashimi and sushi interchangeably, but while they are frequently served at the same establishments, the two dishes are distinct and separate. Sushi refers to any dish made with vinegared rice. While raw fish is one traditional sushi ingredient, many sushi dishes contain seafood that has been cooked, and others have no seafood at all, including ingredients like seaweed, vegetables, omelets, and fried tofu. Sashimi, by contrast, is always served on its own.. An early cookbook in Japanese, written in 1489, directs that the raw flesh should be sliced and mixed with vinegar and seasonings such as salt and herbs.

An early western description of sashimi comes from a letter written by the future Admiral of the Fleet, Sir Arthur Wilson of the Royal Navy, who was assigned to the British naval mission to Japan in the late 1860s: "It is a peculiar sort of fish, which they cut in very thin slices and serve up with some sort of sauce over it. It is considered a great delicacy. I have tried it and did not find it bad, but the idea is not nice."

Serving

Sashimi is often served early in a formal Japanese meal but it can also be served in a sashimi set meal, presented with rice and miso soup in separate bowls. Japanese chefs consider sashimi the finest dish in Japanese formal dining and recommend that it be eaten before other strong flavors affect the palate.

The sliced seafood that composes the main ingredient is typically draped over a garnish. The typical garnish is Asian white radish, daikon, shredded into long thin strands, or single leaves of the herb shiso (perilla). Garnishes for sashimi are generally called tsuma and may also include slices of other raw vegetables, such as cucumbers and carrots, as well as seaweeds, flowers and leaves and stems of other plants.

Sashimi is popularly served with a dipping sauce (soy sauce) and condiments such as wasabi paste, grated fresh ginger, gari or pickled ginger, grated fresh garlic, or ponzu for meat sashimi, and such garnishes as shiso and shredded daikon radish. Wasabi paste is sometimes mixed directly into soy sauce as a dipping sauce, which is generally not done when eating sushi (which itself normally includes wasabi). A reputed motivation for serving wasabi with sashimi and also gari, besides its flavor, is killing harmful bacteria and parasites that could be present in raw seafood.

Preparation

To highlight the delicate flavor as well as for texture, the chef cuts fish into different thicknesses by variety of the fish, its age and by the season. The hira-zukuri cut (literally 'flat slice'), is the standard cut for most sashimi. Typically this style of cut is the size of a domino and 10 mm (3⁄8 in) thick. Tuna, salmon, and kingfish are most commonly cut in this style. The usu-zukuri cut (literally 'thin slice'), is an extremely thin, diagonally cut slice that is mostly used to cut firm fish, such as bream, whiting, and flounder. The dimensions of this cut are usually 50 mm (2 in) long and 2 mm (1⁄16 in) wide. The kaku-zukuri cut (literally 'square slice'), is the style in which sashimi is cut into small cubes that are 20 mm (3⁄4 in) on each side. The ito-zukuri cut (literally 'thread slice'), is the style in which the fish is cut into fine strips, less than 2 mm (1⁄16 in) in diameter. The fish typically cut with the ito-zukuri style include garfish and squid; squid dish prepared in ito-zukuri is also called ika sōmen and is dipped in dashi or men-tsuyu, in the same way as sōmen (white flour noodles).

Varieties

Popular main ingredients for sashimi include:

Salmon (鮭, Sake)

Squid (いか, Ika)

Shrimp (えび, Ebi)

Tuna (マグロ, Maguro)

Mackerel (さば, Saba)

Horse mackerel (あじ, Aji)

Octopus (たこ, Tako)

Fatty tuna (おおとろ, Ōtoro)

Yellowtail (はまち, Hamachi)

Scallop (ほたて貝, Hotate-gai)

Sea urchin (ウニ, Uni)

Some sashimi ingredients, such as octopus, are sometimes served cooked given their chewy nature. Most seafood, such as tuna, salmon, and squid, are served raw. Tataki ('pounded') is a type of sashimi that is quickly and lightly seared on the outside, leaving it raw inside.

Ingredients other than raw fish meat

Food cut into small pieces and eaten with wasabi and soy sauce may be called sashimi in Japan, including the following ingredients. Like bamboo shoots, the food is enjoyed raw to appreciate the freshness, and producers and farmers offer those sashimi at their properties in top season. Some of the vegetables are enjoyed as thin sliced strips and called sashimi while they resemble fish meat, like avocado as salmon and konnyaku as puffer fish.

Less common, but not unusual, sashimi ingredients are vegetarian items, such as yuba (bean curd skin), and raw red meats, such as beef or horse (known as basashi). Chicken "sashimi" (known as toriwasa) is considered by some [who?] to be a delicacy; the Nagoya kōchin, French poulet de Bresse and its American derivative, the blue foot chicken, are favored by many for this purpose, as, besides their taste, they are certified to be free of Salmonella.[citation needed] Chicken sashimi is sometimes slightly braised or seared on the outside.

Avocado: served as "avocado sashimi", it is considered to have a texture similar to raw or slightly salted fatty salmon. It is eaten with wasabi soy sauce.

Bamboo shoots: Bamboo grove farmers serve takenoko in course menu, and sashimi is almost always sold during the high season of harvest.

Japanese radish: among many varieties of vegetables eaten fresh, it is said that the flavor stands out when tasted within a couple of hours after harvesting, and called sashimi vegetables instead of very fresh salad.

Konnyaku: cut into short thin strips resembling puffer fish meat, thus called yama fugu (mountain puffer fish) in some regions. Served with vinegar and miso, wasabi and soy sauce, vinegar and soy sauce.

Yuba, or tofu skin: while there are restaurants where customers cook their own yuba and eat while it is hot, yuba-sashi or sashimi of yuba is chilled and served with wasabi soy sauce or vinegar miso.

Beef, pork, and poultry are bought from licensed butchers and processors and served raw or slightly cooked to avoid high risk of food poisoning and parasite infection. Meat may be treated in boiling water (yubiki) or braised with a gas torch (aburi). Served with ponzu citrus vinegar.

Chicken meat (toriwasa) is thinly sliced Nagoya kōchin flesh, liver, heart and gizzard.

Chiragaa: boiled face skin of pork, served with vinegar and miso sauce, also served as Okinawa cuisine.

Goat meat: Okinawa cuisine, served with soy sauce and grated ginger.

Horse meat: offered with grated garlic and soy sauce.

Mimigaa: boiled ears of pork, also served as Okinawa cuisine.

Offal: advised to buy from meat processors or restaurants with licenses, as fatal food poisoning happened in Japan with beef liver.

Wild meat: boar as Okinawa cuisine consumed on Iriomote and Ishigaki islands and boiled meat is served. Deer meat.

Fishcake: An item in the express menu of Izakaya, offered as Itawasa. Sliced into 1 centimetre (0.39 in) thick strips, and eaten with wasabi and soy sauce.

Seaweed: wakame is in strict sense not eaten raw but dipped in boiling water for a few seconds, and enjoyed with wasabi soy sauce. Marinating with vinegar and miso sauce is popular as well.

Goat meat served raw as sashimi

Thinly sliced "mimigā" (near) and "chiragā" (far)

A plate of dolphin sashimi

A plate of horse sashimi (basashi)

Beef sashimi

Chicken sashimi served lightly braised as tataki

Beef liver sashimi served with sesame seed oil and salt

Safety

As a raw food, consuming sashimi can result in foodborne illness when bacteria or parasites are present; for example, anisakiasis is a disease caused by the accidental ingestion of larval nematodes in the family Anisakidae, primarily Anisakis simplex but also Pseudoterranova decipiens. In addition, incorrectly prepared fugu fish may contain tetrodotoxin, a potent neurotoxin.

Another type of foodborne illness that could occur after consuming tainted sashimi is diphyllobothriasis. This disease is an infection within the intestines that occurs when the tapeworm Diphyllobothrium latum is consumed. Common fish such as trout, salmon, pike, and sea bass harbor this parasitic larva in their muscles. Since the innovation of the chilled transport system paired with the salmon and trout consumption, an increasing number of cases have been recorded annually in northern Japan due to the spread of this disease.

Traditionally, fish that spend at least part of their lives in brackish or fresh water were considered unsuitable for sashimi because of the possibility of parasites. For example, salmon, an anadromous fish, is not traditionally eaten straight out of the river.[citation needed] A study in Seattle, Washington, showed that all wild salmon had roundworm larvae capable of infecting people, while farm-raised salmon did not have any roundworm larvae. However, a study commissioned by the Pew Foundation found that total organic contaminants were consistently and significantly more concentrated in the farmed salmon as a group than in wild salmon.

Freezing is often used to kill parasites. According to a European Union regulation, freezing fish at −20 °C (−4 °F) for 24 hours kills parasites. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommends freezing at −35 °C (−31 °F) for 15 hours, or at −20 °C (−4 °F) for 7 days.

While Canada does not federally regulate freezing fish, British Columbia and Alberta voluntarily adhere to guidelines similar to the FDA's. Ontario attempted to legislate freezing as part of raw food handling requirements, though this was soon withdrawn due to protests by the industry that the subtle flavors and texture of raw fish would be destroyed by freezing. Instead, Ontario has decided to consider regulations on how raw fish must be handled prior to serving.

Some fish for sashimi are treated with carbon monoxide to keep the flesh red for a longer time in storage. This practice can make spoiled fish appear fresh.

Eating chicken sashimi is a serious food poisoning risk. Despite it being on menus, it is hard to find, and many chefs cook it incorrectly. Chicken sashimi is also often sourced at certain restaurants from the thigh, liver and outer breast.

Environmental concerns

With the constant amount of fishing, bluefin tuna population rates have been steadily declining. A proposed solution has been farming bluefin tuna in fisheries. Historically, this has posed a problem in that the captive fish are not raised from spawn, but rather from small wild fish that are netted and transported to the farms, mostly in the Mediterranean. However, Japanese scientists have found a way to successfully breed and raise the fish entirely in captivity.

See also

Food portal

Surimi

Ikizukuri (live sashimi)

Kuai (dish)

Hoe (dish)

Carpaccio

Kinilaw

Steak tartare

Stroganina

Tiradito

List of raw fish dishes

Mercury in fish

Ceviche

Yusheng

^ a b Japanese regulation has banned providing or selling raw beef liver for sashimi at restaurants or stores, due to the risk of Hepatitis E and Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli, since July 2012.

^ With cases reported in 2012, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare banned beef liver to be served as sashimi after 12 cases of food poisoning was reported. The regulation was tightened in 2015 and pork liver was added to banned offal.

References

^ "sashimi Meaning in the Cambridge English Dictionary". dictionary.cambridge.org. Archived from the original on 20 August 2018. Retrieved 20 August 2018.

^ Totos (4 December 2012). "Ike Jime Part 2 – What "closing" does to the fish? | Japanese Anglers Secrets". Retrieved 30 October 2025.

^ a b Phillips, Hedy (18 February 2022). "What Is Sashimi, Exactly?". Reader's Digest. Retrieved 4 December 2022.

^ "What is the difference between Sushi vs Sashimi". Pogogi. 20 February 2014. Retrieved 17 May 2019.

^ a b Gordenker, Alice (20 November 2022). "Your Informed Guide to Sashimi Garnishes: What are they and should you eat them?". Retrieved 27 November 2022.

^ Bradford, Sir Edward Eden (1923). Life of Admiral of the Fleet Sir Arthur Knyvet Wilson, Bart., V.C., G.C.B., O.M., G.C.V.O. J. Murray. p. 26.

^ a b c Tsuji, Shizuo; Fisher, M.F.K.; Reichi, Ruth (17 February 2007). Japanese Cooking: A Simple Art (25th Anniversary ed.). Kodansha USA. pp. 158–60. ISBN 978-4-7700-3049-8.

^ "Wasabi". Japan Deluxe Tours. Retrieved 30 May 2017.

^ "Sushi Items – Wasabi". The Sushi FAQ. Archived from the original on 6 August 2011. Retrieved 12 July 2011.

^ a b Ōta, Tadamichi (2008). Kentei washoku chōri no hōchō gijutsu: shoshinsha kara ryōrinin made gijutsu ga kanzen ni mi ni tsuku ! [Certified Japanese cooking technology for using kitchen knives: From beginners to cooks, skills are fully acquired!] (in Japanese). Tōkyō: Asahiya shuppan. ISBN 9784751107690. OCLC 23313847.

^ Ōta, Tadamichi (2013). Shin★sashimi ryori no chori to enshutsu: ninki wo yobu sashimi-zukuri no gijutsu kokai [New Sashimi dish cooking and presentation: Technical know-how revealed on preparing popular sashimi dishes]. Asahiya Shuppan MOOK (in Japanese). Asahiya Shuppan. ISBN 9784751110256. OCLC 842834700.NCID BB13254487

^ Ōta, T. (2018). Shinka suru sashimi ryori: miryoku wo takameru sashimi no ryori-zukuri to chori gijutsu [Evolving sashimi cuisine: Sashimi cooking and decoration techniques to better appeal] (in Japanese). Asahiya Shuppan. ISBN 9784751113127. OCLC 1021860782.NCID BB25638919

^ "How to prepare sashimi". Good Food. 10 November 2014. Archived from the original on 6 April 2016. Retrieved 12 April 2016.

^ Detrick, Mia (1981). Sushi. Chronicle Books. ISBN 978-0-87701-238-2. Retrieved 12 April 2016.

^ "Nigiri vs. Sashimi: What is the difference between Nigiri and Sashimi?". 29 November 2020. Retrieved 15 April 2021.

^ Mouritsen, O.G. (2009). Sushi: Food for the Eye, the Body and the Soul. Springer. p. 296. ISBN 978-1-4419-0618-2. Retrieved 13 May 2019. basashi – sashimi made from raw horse (uma).

^ a b Kramer, Jillian (24 January 2017). "Is It Safe To Eat Chicken Sashimi?". Food & Wine. Retrieved 17 May 2019.

^ Muroi, Hiroshi (July 1983). "Takenoko no sashimi". Fuji Take-rui Shokubutsuen Hokoku: The Reports of the Fuji Bamboo Garden (in Japanese) (27). Gotemba, Shizuoka: Nihon takesasa no kai: 95–98. ISSN 0287-3494. OCLC 5178838299.

^ Ikenami, Shotaro (June 1989). "Kenyaku shobai hocho-gonomi: takenoko no sashimi hoka 4-ten". Shōsetsu Shinchō (in Japanese). 43 (7(541)). Shinchosha: 142–145. doi:10.11501/6075166.

^ "kigyo to ningen: shun no yasai no sashimi wo shokutaku e no fudo sabisu-bin — Mitsui shokuhin gokyo kabushikigaisha to Iwata Sekio-shi" [Industry and individuals: Food service that flights fresh vegetables sashimi onto your dining table — Mitsui Food Industries, Ltd. and Sekio Iwata]. Shokuhin No Hoso (in Japanese). 29 (2). Nagoya: Hoso shokuhin gijutu kyokai: 3–5. March 1998. ISSN 0285-4449.

^ 新潮社 (June 1991). "(G)Kyoto-hen: fumi yutakana "Yubani" no namayuba sashimi" [Kyoto edition: Raw Yuba sashimi at "Yuba ni", rich in flavor]. Shukan Shincho (in Japanese). 36 (22). Shinchosha: 33. doi:10.11501/3378682. ISSN 0488-7484.

^ "Chiragaa". Digital Daijisen plus.

^ Okinawa/Amami Slow Food Society, ed. (October 2004). Okinawa suro fudo okoku: karada to kokoro ni hibikiau, furusato okinawa no aji magajin [Okinawa Slow Food Kingdom: Taste magazine of oldness and Okinawa that resonates with body and mind] (in Japanese). Tokyo: Ei Shuppan. p. 29. ISBN 4-7779-0171-8.

^ Tokai seikatsu kenkyu purojekuto Okinawa chimu, ed. (2009). Okinawa ruru: riaru okinawa-jin ni narutame no 49 no ruru [Okinawan Rules: 49 rules that you should master before becoming a real Okinawan]. Chukei shuppan / KADOKAWA.

^ Okinawa/Amami 2004, p. 29.

^ "Nenkan wazuka 12-rei no shokuchudoku wo nakusutame, shomin no tanoshimi wa ubawareta: "Rebasashi" wo kinshi shita Korosho no oobaka kisei" [part 13: The pleasure of the common people was taken away to eliminate only 12 cases of food poisoning a year: ban on beef liver sashimi, an absurd measure by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare]. Shukan Posuto. Honshi "Shiroari kujotai" ga iku (in Japanese). 44 (20(2180)). Shogakukan: 47–49. 18 May 2012.

^ Taniguchi, Natsuko (2013). Sayonara rebasashi: Kinshi made no yonhyaku-sanjūhachi-nichikan [Goodbye, liver sashimi: 438 days to ban]. BAMBOO ESSAY SELECTION. Tokyo: Takeshobō. ISBN 9784812495933. OCLC 853442433.

^ "Buta no nama rebā: Teikyō kinshi Kōrōshō, raigetsu chūjun kara" [Raw pork lever: Ministry of Labor Bans, starting middle next month]. Mainichi Shinbun (in Japanese). 27 May 2015.

^ "Japanese regulation document". Archived from the original on 24 July 2015.

^ "BBB – Anisakis simplex and related". Fda.gov. 2 February 2009. Archived from the original on 25 June 2011. Retrieved 12 July 2011.

^ Nawa, Yukifumi; Hatz, Christoph; Blum, Johannes (2005). "Sushi Delights and Parasites: The Risk of Fishborne and Foodborne Parasitic Zoonoses in Asia" (PDF). Clinical Infectious Diseases. 41 (9): 1297–1303. doi:10.1086/496920. PMID 16206105.

^ Deardorff, T.L.; Kent, M.L. (1 July 1989). "Prevalence of larval Anisakis simplex in pen-reared and wild-caught salmon (Salmonidae) from Puget Sound, Washington". Journal of Wildlife Diseases. 25 (3): 416–419. Bibcode:1989JWDis..25..416D. doi:10.7589/0090-3558-25.3.416. PMID 2761015. S2CID 41817356.

^ Hites, R.A. (9 January 2004). "Global Assessment of Organic Contaminants in Farmed Salmon". Science. 303 (5655): 226–229. Bibcode:2004Sci...303..226H. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.319.8375. doi:10.1126/science.1091447. PMID 14716013. S2CID 24058620.

^ Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 laying down specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin

^ Commission Regulation (EC) No 1020/2008 of 17 October 2008 amending Annexes II and III to Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin and Regulation (EC) No 2076/2005 as regards identification marking, raw milk and dairy products, eggs and egg products and certain fishery products

^ The requirement for frozen products was removed from Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 through an amendment made by Commission Regulation (EU) No 1020/2008. This amendment, adopted on 17 October 2008, modified certain provisions of the original regulation, including the rules concerning the freezing of products of animal origin. One of the key changes in this amendment was related to the removal of the blanket requirement for freezing certain products (like fishery products) before processing or distribution, allowing more flexibility for businesses in handling, storage, and distribution under certain conditions. This change was part of a broader effort to simplify the hygiene rules applicable to food businesses while maintaining food safety standards.

^ Chapter 5: Parasites Archived 28 March 2014 at the Wayback Machine Fish and Fishery Products Hazards and Controls Guidance – Fourth Edition

^ "Illness-Causing Fish Parasites (Worms)" (PDF). BC Centre for Disease Control. July 2008. Archived from the original (PDF) on 6 July 2011. Retrieved 27 April 2010.

^ "Sushi Sashimi Policy" (PDF). Calgary Health Region. 1 February 2007. Archived (PDF) from the original on 5 February 2011. Retrieved 27 April 2010.

^ "Farm Direct Marketing: Know the Regulations - General Legislation" (PDF). Open Government Alberta. 2014. Archived (PDF) from the original on 29 May 2019.

^ [1] Archived 2 February 2010 at the Wayback Machine

^ "What Color Is Your Tuna? Washington Post Wednesday, October 27, 2004". The Washington Post. 27 October 2004. Archived from the original on 1 April 2012. Retrieved 12 July 2011.

^ Moskin, Julia (6 October 2004). "Tuna's Red Glare? It Could Be Carbon Monoxide". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 17 February 2013. Retrieved 12 July 2011.

^ "The Bluefin Slaughter". The Opinion Pages/Editorial. The New York Times. 17 November 2007. p. A18. Archived from the original on 5 June 2015. Retrieved 12 July 2011.

^ "Japanese scientists breed first captive bluefin tuna in fight for sustainable fisheries". North Asia. ABC News. 7 April 2015. Archived from the original on 2 June 2016. Retrieved 28 May 2016.

External links

Sashimi

Gordenker, Alice (28 November 2015). "Why Do We Need a Little Bit on the Side?". So What the Heck Is That (column). Japan Times. On the garnishes for sashimi.

Chahan

Curry Katsu curry

Katsu curry

Glutinous

Hatsuga genmai

Donmono Chūkadon Gyūdon Katsudon Oyakodon Tekkadon Tenshindon Unadon

Chūkadon

Gyūdon

Katsudon

Oyakodon

Tekkadon

Tenshindon

Unadon

Hayashi rice

Onigiri Tenmusu

Tenmusu

Omurice

Sushi History Sustainable

History

Sustainable

Sekihan

Takikomi

Harusame

Hiyamugi

Hiyashi chūka

Ramen Champon Kagoshima Muroran curry Tantan-men Tonkotsu Tsukemen

Champon

Kagoshima

Muroran curry

Tantan-men

Tonkotsu

Tsukemen

Shirataki

Okinawa soba Soki

Sōmen Salad

Udon Yakiudon

Yakiudon

Yakisoba

Monjayaki

Okonomiyaki Hirayachi

Hirayachi

Takoyaki

Melonpan

Milk bread

Yudane

Agedashi dōfu

Agemono Furai Karaage Korokke Kushikatsu Satsuma-age Tempura

Karaage

Korokke

Kushikatsu

Satsuma-age

Tempura

Chawanmushi

Chikuzenni

Kabayaki

Kakuni

Kushiyaki

Nabemono

Namasu

Nikujaga

Onsen tamago

Sashimi Fugusashi

Fugusashi

Shabu-shabu

Shiokara

Sukiyaki

Tamagoyaki

Tokoroten

Tonkatsu

Tororo

Tsukemono Nukazuke Takuan

Nukazuke

Takuan

Tsukudani

Tsukune

Yakiniku

Yakitori

Tonjiru

Kenchin-jiru

Miso soup

Suimono [ja]

Bento Ekiben Kyaraben Makunouchi Wappameshi

Ekiben

Kyaraben

Makunouchi

Wappameshi

Honzen-ryōri

Jūbako

Kaiseki

Osechi

Sake Amazake Nigori Toso

Amazake

Nigori

Shōchū Awamori Habushu Umeshu

Awamori

Habushu

Umeshu

Green tea History Bancha Gyokuro Hōjicha Kabuse Kukicha Matcha Matcha latte Sencha Uji

History

Bancha

Gyokuro

Hōjicha

Kabuse

Kukicha

Matcha Matcha latte

Matcha latte

Sencha

Herbal teas Genmaicha Sobacha Kombu-cha Mugicha

Genmaicha

Sobacha

Kombu-cha

Mugicha

Ramune

Aojiru

C.C. Lemon

Calpis

Canned coffee Boss Georgia

Georgia

Energy drinks Lipovitan Oronamin C

Lipovitan

Oronamin C

Sports drinks Aquarius Pocari Sweat

Aquarius

Pocari Sweat

Yakult

Amanattō

Botan Rice Candy

Daifuku

Dango Chichi Kibi

Chichi

Dorayaki

Karukan

Konpeitō

Mochi Agemochi Goheimochi Kankoro Kuzumochi Zunda-mochi

Agemochi

Goheimochi

Kankoro

Kuzumochi

Zunda-mochi

Senbei Arare

Shiruko

Taiyaki

Warabimochi

Square watermelon

Yubari King

Ruby Roman

Shine Muscat

Aonori

Bamboo shoot

Beni shōga

Burdock

Daikon Sakurajima

Sakurajima

Fish Kamaboko Mentaiko / tarako Surimi Tobiko

Kamaboko

Mentaiko / tarako

Surimi

Tobiko

Hijiki

Kanzuri

Karashi

Katsuobushi

Konnyaku

Kuromitsu

Kuzuko

Mayonnaise

Mushrooms Enokitake Matsutake Shiitake

Enokitake

Matsutake

Shiitake

Sake kasu

Sansyō

Sauce Ponzu Soy Tare Tonkatsu Worcestershire

Tonkatsu

Worcestershire

Sesame oil

Shichimi

Tenkasu

Umeboshi

Wasabi

Yuzu Yuzu koshō

Yuzu koshō

Chawan

Chopsticks

Kitchen knife Deba bōchō Gyuto Maguro bōchō Nakiri bōchō Santoku Sashimi bōchō Usuba bōchō Yanagi ba

Deba bōchō

Maguro bōchō

Nakiri bōchō

Santoku

Sashimi bōchō

Usuba bōchō

Yanagi ba

Rice cooker

Shamoji

Suribachi

Dishes Ramen Soups and stews

Soups and stews

Sushi and sashimi ingredients

Chinmi

Ichijū-sansai

Itameshi

Omakase

Teppanyaki

Tokusanhin

Teriyaki

Customs and etiquette

Okinawan cuisine

Category

# Japanese wine


Although viticulture and the cultivation of grapes for table consumption has a long history in Japan, domestic wine production using locally produced grapes only really began with the adoption of Western culture during the Meiji restoration in the second half of the 19th century.

According to data from Japan's National Tax Agency for 2017, approximately 382,000 kiloliters of wine was purchased in Japan, of which two-thirds was imported wine. Of the 102,000 kiloliters of wine domestically produced that year, only a fifth came from domestically grown and harvested grapes. The Agency states the share of Japanese wine, as defined as domestically produced wine from domestically grown grapes, as only 4% of total domestic consumption, or 14,988 kiloliters. Only 58 kiloliters of Japanese wine was exported overseas.

The main region for winemaking in Japan is in Yamanashi Prefecture which accounts for approximately a third of domestic production, although grapes are cultivated and wine is also produced in more limited quantities by vintners throughout the country, from Hokkaido in the North to Miyazaki Prefecture on the Southern island of Kyushu.

History

Early history

Grape-growing in Japan began in 718 AD, in Katsunuma, Yamanashi Prefecture. Japan's early viticulture was based on the Koshu grape, thought to be originally from the Georgia caucasus region.

The first regularly documented wine consumption in Japan was however in the 16th century, with the arrival of Jesuit missionaries from Portugal. Saint Francis Xavier brought wines as gifts for the feudal lords of Kyūshū, and other missionaries continued the practice, resulting in locals acquiring taste for wine and importing it regularly. They called the Portuguese wine chintashu (珍陀酒), combining the Portuguese word tinto (chinta in Japanese) meaning red and shu (酒) meaning liquor.

Meiji Era

There was a prejudice that Japanese looked at red wine and mistook it for "blood," while Westerners drank "living blood."

A report written in 1869 by Adams, Secretary to the British Legation in Yedo, describes "a quantity of vines, trained on horizontal trellis frames, which rested on poles at a height of 7 or 8 feet from the ground" in the region of Koshu, Yamanashi. It was not until 1873 however, after detailed reports on European wine culture were made available by returning members of the Iwakura Mission, that more focused attempts were made to promote domestic wine production. The first attempt to produce wine locally, using mainly sake brewing equipment, was undertaken by Hironori Yamada and Norihisa Takuma in Kofu, Yamanashi, in 1875. In 1877, the newly formed winery Dai-Nihon Yamanashi Budoshu in Katsunuma, Yamanashi dispatched Masanari Takano and Ryuken Tsuchiya to Troyes in the Champagne region of France to learn viticulture and wine production techniques. The cultivation of European grape varieties formed the core of early Japanese attempts, however the project was all but destroyed in 1884 by an outbreak of Phylloxera that arrived via imported root stock.

20th century

In many prefectures a few small scale viniculturists remained, but it was not until after World War II that the scale of winemaking began to grow. However, in comparison to the growth of imported wines and the production of low cost retail wines from imported grape juices, domestically grown and harvested wine still remained at an early stage of development.

In terms of Japanese taste for domestically produced wine, astringency and acidity were not readily accepted at the beginning.2 For a long time sugars such as honey were added to moderate the flavor and "sweet" (甘口, amakuchi) wine was the mainstay. In 1907, Shinjiro Torii, founder of the Suntory beverages empire launched Red Sun Port Wine (赤玉ポートワイン, Akadama Pōto Wain) with an advertising campaign in 1922 that both scandalized with its suggestion of nudity, and prompted a huge boost to sales. The trend for sweetened, fortified and medicinal tonic wines continued until the 1970s when wine was still fundamentally known as grape liquor (葡萄酒, budōshu), and only a small minority imported and drank European wine.3

During the 1970s and 80s the skill level of wine making increased and the purchases of both imported and domestic wine grew with the rapidly expanding economy. Specialists began to call their holdings "wineries", and the emulation of Western style hedging and cultivation of insect resistant grape varieties spread. For the first time domestic wineries began to focus on producing superior wines using only domestically cultivated grapes. Also, in response to demand from Japanese consumers, the production of organic wines also became popular.

In the 1990s and 2000s due to a reduction in taxes on imported wine and a diversification of Japanese food culture, wine consumption continued to grow. In 1995, Shinya Tasaki became the first Japanese to be awarded the title of Meillieur Sommelier du Monde, and helped to significantly raise public awareness of wine appreciation. Media attention given to the beneficial effects of polyphenol (tannins) and local government led efforts to promote high quality domestically produced wine also contributed to industry expansion. From 2002 onward, leading with Yamanashi Prefecture, competitions focused on "Japanese wine using only 100% Japanese grapes" began.

By the end of the 20th century, the growing popularity of wine within Japan translated into an estimated 15 million people now drinking wine on a regular basis.

Vine cultivation

To accommodate the challenges of climate and terrain in Japan vine cultivation techniques have been extensively adapted. In areas of high humidity during the summer, an elevated horizontal hedging technique known as "Tanajitate" (棚仕立) is used to keep the fruit about 1.5–2 meters above the ground to allow ventilation. Horizontal trellises have also proven effective in reducing wind damage from typhoons. On sloping land, Italian ryegrass is often planted under the vines to help prevent soil erosion.

In areas higher in the mountains, such as Tochigi, where good sunlight is at odds with the jagged terrain, winemakers have planted their hedges on steep hillsides both to receive a maximum of sunlight, as well as protect the vines against damage from heavy snowfall.

Industry structure

There are relatively few independent wine producers in Japan, the industry being dominated by large beverage conglomerates such as Suntory, owner of the Snaraku, and Manns Wine brands, Sapporo trading with brands such as Chateau Lion, Delica, and Kirin through its Mercian Corporation operating subsidiary, owner of the Chateau Mercian label. All the major beverage conglomerates have access to domestically grown grapes, but given the challenge of climate on domestic grape production, three quarters of the wine bottled by Japanese producers relies to some extent on imported bulk wine or grape concentrate. Domestically produced mass market wines using imported wine or grape concentrate are required by law to note this on the label.

Japanese wines produced using only 100% domestic grape content command a price premium and are only occasionally exported. Smaller, family or city owned wineries of note gaining a reputation for producing domestically grown wines of consistently better quality include Marufuji, Kizan, Katsunuma Jozo, Grace (all in Yamanashi Prefecture) Takeda (Yamagata Prefecture) and Tsuno (Miyazaki Prefecture).

Major wine producing regions of Japan

In Japan the main regions for wine production, listed in order of production volume of wine made from domestically grown grapes, are Yamanashi (31%), Nagano (23%) and Hokkaidō (17%). In Yamanashi, the main wine region is the Koshu Valley, an area that centers around the town of Koshu and is home to 70 of the approximately 80 wineries in the prefecture. In Hokkaidō, the town of Ikeda recovered economically from a state of bankruptcy with regional planning toward grape growing and wine production and within 20 years following 1960 was able to make it successful. Thereafter, every region began to foster production, the main cause of which was the influence of the nationwide "One Village, One Speciality Movement" (一村一品運動, Isson Ippin Undō). In Yamagata during World War II wine was produced in large amounts for the military to provide the dietary supplement cream of tartar, and because the soil in Yamagata is suitable for fruit cultivation, today it is one region that is home to numerous well known producers. In the recent past Aichi Prefecture was also a large producer of wine.

Hokkaidō: Tokachi Wine (十勝ワイン), Ikeda. Furano Wine (ふらのワイン), Furano.

Yamagata Prefecture: Tendō Wine (天童ワイン), Tendō.

Niigata Prefecture: Iwanohara Wine (岩の原ワイン), Jōetsu.

Yamanashi Prefecture: Katsunuma Wine (勝沼ワイン), Kōshū. "Rubaiyat", Kōshū. 100% Domestically grown grapes.

Nagano Prefecture: Shinshū Wine (信州ワイン), Shiojiri.

Shiga Prefecture: Hitomi Wine (ヒトミワイン), Higashiōmi.

Tochigi Prefecture：Nasu Wine (那須ワイン), Nasushiobara.

Kyoto Prefecture: Tanba Wine (丹波ワイン), Kyōtanba.

Osaka Prefecture: Kawachi Wine (河内ワイン), Kashiwara and Habikino.

Hyōgo Prefecture: Kobe Wine (神戸ワイン), Kobe In Hyogo Prefecture, Kobe City took the initiative to by developing regional agriculture and tourism with independent wineries as well has launching city-brand products.

In Hyogo Prefecture, Kobe City took the initiative to by developing regional agriculture and tourism with independent wineries as well has launching city-brand products.

Miyazaki Prefecture: Aya Wine (綾ワイン), Aya. Tsuno Wine (都農ワイン), Tsuno.

Japanese grape varieties

Japan supports a wide range of grape varieties although the vast majority of this production is for table consumption and only a small percentage is used in domestic wine making. Strictly speaking there are no vines native to Japan, although the Koshu white wine grape has evolved locally over many centuries and is therefore considered an indigenous variety. Hardy varietals imported from North America such as the Delaware and Niagara grape were widely planted in the post war period, but since 1985 have significantly declined in popularity. Premium table consumption grapes such as Kyoho and more recently Pione, a hybrid cultivar of Kyoho and Cannon Hall Muscat, command significant price premiums for producers.

Grapes used solely for winemaking are produced in limited quantities as price margins for table grapes are often significantly higher. Imported wine grape cultivars include Müller-Thurgau, Chardonnay, Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon.

Koshu is a white wine grape variety grown primarily in Yamanashi Prefecture. The grape varietal developed from vines likely imported from the Caucasus through the Silk Road, at a period estimated to be around a thousand years ago. The grape is a hybrid variety indigenous to Japan, and benefits from a relatively thick skin able to withstand the damp of the Japanese Summer. The name “Koshu” is a former name for Yamanashi.

Characteristics of wines made from the Koshu grape are typically a pale, straw colour and a soft, fruity bouquet with overtones of citrus and peach. The taste is often described as clean, delicate and fresh, considered a good match for Japanese cuisine.

Muscat Bailey A

"Muscat Bailey-A" (マスカットべリーA) is a red wine grape hybrid developed by Zenbei Kawakami (川上善兵衛, Kawakami Zenbei) (1868–1944) at the Iwanohara Winery (岩の原わいん) in Niigata Prefecture. Kawakami's goal was to develop a grape for wine adapted to Japan's climate. He did this by mixing the "Bailey" (ベーリー) type grape with a Black Muscat type grape to give birth to a red wine grape that is widely used in Japan. Also developed by Kawakami was the variety known as "Black Queen" (ブラッククイーン). The characteristics of Muscat Bailey-A are a very grape juice-like flavor and it is most widely used in sweet amakuchi wines. However, in recent years, drier varieties and barrel aged varieties have also been developed. Muscat Bailey-A has been blended with western grapes creating a very full bodied, Bordeaux style flavour. In addition, different blending has led to smoother Bourgogne/Burgundy varieties.

Designation of Origin

"Mark of Origin" (原産地表示, Gensanchi Hyōji) is a system of legal designation for wine produced in Japan, much like France's Appellation d'Origine Contrôlée (AOC) laws and the United States' American Viticultural Area (AVA) designations.

In Japan there is no nationwide organization of legal designation, regardless of domain of origin or types of grape, anything that is fermented domestically can be labeled as "Japanese wine". Because of this, there are some products labeled as Japanese that are produced using imported grape juice.4

However, independent self-governing municipal bodies have begun systems of regional appellation. For example, Nagano Prefecture's "Appellation Control System" (長野県原産地呼称管理制度, Nagano-ken Gensan-chi Koshō Kanri Seido), and Kōshū's "Wine Domain of Origin Certification Regulation" (ワイン原産地認証条例, Wain Gensan-chi Ninshō Jōrei).

See also

Agriculture in Japan

Japanese cuisine

References

^ a b c "Overview of Domestic Wine Production (Japanese only)" (PDF). National Tax Agency. February 2019.

^ a b c d e Robinson, Jancis (1999). The Oxford Companion to Wine. Oxford University Press. pp. 377–380. ISBN 0-19-866236-X.

^ Gilhooly, Rob (2022-09-12). "Rethinking the ancient origins of Japan's wine industry". The Japan Times. Retrieved 2022-09-13.

^ "富岡製糸場に行ってみた！明治時代の建築をほぼ当時のまま保存の世界遺産". 18 March 2021. Retrieved 2023-07-25.

^ "シルクの国の明治150年～上州富岡から始まった近代産業の夜明け～". Retrieved 2023-07-25.

^ Adams (1870). "Report on the Central Silk Districts of Japan". Presented to Both Houses of Parliament by Command of Her Majesty. 1. London: Harrison and Sons.

^ "果樹栽培地の歴史的風致 (Japanese only)" (PDF). Koshu City. 2016-12-21.[permanent dead link]

^ Rose, Anthony (2018). Sake and the Wines of Japan. Infinite Ideas Limited. p. 258. ISBN 978-1906821623.

^ Kiple, Kenneth (2000). The Cambridge World History of Food - Volume 2. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press. p. 1182. ISBN 0-521-40215-8.

^ "Market dynamics of the wine industry (Japan)". Platform Executive. 10 December 2024. Retrieved 2025-03-06.

^ Robinson, Oxford Companion to Wine, p.380

^ Johnson, Hugh (2013). World Atlas of Wine (Seventh ed.). London: Octopus Publishing Group. p. 376. ISBN 978-1-84533-689-9.

^ Murray Brown, Rose (July 12, 2014). "Japanese Wines Hit British Supermarkets". The Scotsman. Retrieved 27 July 2014.

^ Robinson, Jancis (1999). The Oxford Companion to Wine (Second ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press. p. 378. ISBN 0-19-866236-X.

^ "Origins of the Koshu Grape". Koshu Valley. Retrieved 2019-05-27.

^ Sasaki, Shigeyuki. "Japanese Fruits - Fruits Grown in Japan". Takasago International Corporation. Takasago Corp. Archived from the original on 23 September 2015. Retrieved 23 September 2015.

^ Koshu of Japan website, page of “About Koshu” Archived 2013-10-19 at the Wayback Machine.

^ “KOSHU wine gets uncorked abroad”. Felicity Hughes, The Japan Times, Jun 10, 2011

^ Koshu of Japan website, page of “Taste” Archived 2013-12-06 at the Wayback Machine

External links

Koshu Valley Wine Country (in English)

Japanese wine Archived 2007-10-16 at the Wayback Machine (in Japanese)

"The Light and Dark of Imported Wine Demand" newspaper article (in Japanese)

History of Japanese Wine from the National Winery Assoc. Website Archived 2007-10-16 at the Wayback Machine (in Japanese)

The Japanese Wineries Association (in Japanese)

Annual growth cycle of grapevines

Oenology

Species

Terroir

Veraison

Vineyard

Ancient Phoenicians Ancient Greece Ancient Rome China Noah's wine

Phoenicians

Ancient Greece

Ancient Rome

Noah's wine

Armenia

France Great French Wine Blight

Great French Wine Blight

Georgia

New World Judgment of Paris

Judgment of Paris

Sparkling

Orange

Dessert Fortified Ice Aromatized Fruit Noble rot Straw

Fortified

Aromatized

Noble rot

Other Table Natural Biodynamic Organic Kosher

Natural

Biodynamic

Organic

Kosher

Aligoté

Catarratto

Cayetana blanca

Chardonnay

Chenin blanc

Colombard

Grüner Veltliner

Macabeo

Müller-Thurgau

Muscat blanc

Muscat of Alexandria

Palomino

Riesling

Rkatsiteli

Sauvignon blanc

Sémillon

Trebbiano

Welschriesling

Alicante Bouschet

Barbera

Cabernet Franc

Cabernet Sauvignon

Carignan

Cinsaut

Douce noir

Grenache

Isabella

Malbec

Merlot

Montepulciano

Mourvèdre

Pinot noir

Sangiovese

Tempranillo

Zinfandel

Old World

New World

Alternative wine closure

Box wine

Corkscrew

Decanter

Jug wine

Kvevri

Muselet

Port tongs

Screw cap

Wine bottle

Wine cave

Wine cellar

Wine cork

Wine dispenser

Wine glass

Wine label

Wine rack

Aroma of wine

Acids in wine

Phenolic content in wine

Proteins in wine

Sugars in wine

Classification

Oenophilia

Sommelier

Wine and food pairing

Wine fault

Wine fraud

Winemaker

Wine personalities

Wine tasting

Wine tasting descriptors

Wine portal

Outline

Glossary

Late harvest wine

Noble rot

Vintage

Deacidification

Destemming

Chaptalization

Wine press

Carbonic maceration

Malolactic fermentation

Sparkling wine production

Sugars in wine

Süssreserve

Traditional method

Yeast assimilable nitrogen

Yeast in winemaking

Solera

Wine cellar

Clarification and stabilization of wine

Winery

Wine bottle

Glossary of viticulture terms

Glossary of winemaking terms

Wine tasting descriptors

History of the wine press

History of wine

Terroir

Algeria

Ethiopia

Morocco

Namibia

South Africa

Tanzania

Tunisia

Abkhazia

Armenia

Azerbaijan

Bhutan

Israel

Jordan

Kazakhstan

Lebanon

Palestine

Philippines

Taiwan

Thailand

Turkey

Vietnam

Albania

Austria

Belgium

Bosnia and Herzegovina

Bulgaria

Croatia

Cyprus

Czech Republic

Denmark

France

Georgia

Germany

Greece

Hungary

Ireland

Liechtenstein

Luxembourg

Moldova

Montenegro

North Macedonia

Netherlands

Poland

Portugal

Romania

Russia

San Marino

Serbia

Slovakia

Slovenia

Sweden

Switzerland

Ukraine

United Kingdom

Canada

Mexico

United States

Australia

New Zealand

Argentina

Bolivia

Brazil

Paraguay

Uruguay

Outline

Lists Eras Clans Shoguns Wars

Shoguns

Economic

Education

Foreign relations

Military Naval Imperial Army Imperial Navy

Imperial Army

Imperial Navy

Paleolithic

Jōmon period

Yayoi period

Kofun period

Asuka period Taihō Code Asuka Kiyomihara Code Hakuhō period

Taihō Code

Asuka Kiyomihara Code

Hakuhō period

Taika Reform Monmu period

Monmu period

Nara period

Heian period

Genpei War

Kamakura period Kamakura shogunate

Kamakura shogunate

Mongol invasions of Japan

Genkō War

Kenmu Restoration

Muromachi period Ashikaga shogunate Nanboku-chō period

Ashikaga shogunate

Nanboku-chō period

Ōnin War

Sengoku period Azuchi–Momoyama period Council of Five Elders

Azuchi–Momoyama period

Council of Five Elders

Imjin War

Edo period Tokugawa shogunate

Tokugawa shogunate

Bakumatsu

Empire of Japan

Meiji era Imperial Constitution (1890–1947) Government Meiji oligarchy Meiji Restoration Abolition of the han system Boshin War Satsuma Rebellion

Imperial Constitution (1890–1947)

Government

Meiji oligarchy

Meiji Restoration

Abolition of the han system

Boshin War

Satsuma Rebellion

Kazoku (noble)

First Sino-Japanese War

Russo-Japanese War

Taishō era Japan during World War I 1923 Great Kantō earthquake

Japan during World War I

1923 Great Kantō earthquake

Shōwa era Japan during World War II Mukden Incident Second Sino-Japanese War Pacific War Occupation Postwar Economic miracle

Japan during World War II

Mukden Incident

Second Sino-Japanese War

Pacific War

Occupation

Postwar

Economic miracle

Heisei era Great Hanshin earthquake 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami

Great Hanshin earthquake

2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami

Reiwa era 2019 imperial transition COVID-19 pandemic

2019 imperial transition

COVID-19 pandemic

Addresses

Archipelago

Cities

Districts

Earthquakes

Environment

Extreme points

Islands

Prefectures

Regions

Rivers

Villages

World Heritage Sites

Constitution

Elections

Emperor list

Imperial House

Foreign relations

Human rights LGBTQ

Judiciary Supreme Court

Supreme Court

Law enforcement

National Diet House of Representatives House of Councillors List of members

House of Representatives

House of Councillors

List of members

Political parties

Self-Defense Forces Ground Maritime Air

Ground

Maritime

Cabinet list

Fiscal policy

Foreign policy

Ministries

Prime Minister list

Deputy Prime Minister

Agriculture, forestry, fishing

Central bank

Manufacturing

Energy

Science and technology

Telecommunications

Transport

Anti-monarchism

Censorship

Demographics

Education

Etiquette

Gambling

Health Kanpu masatsu

Kanpu masatsu

Housing Homelessness

Homelessness

Languages Japanese

Japanese

Life expectancy

People

Pornography

Prostitution

Religion

Sex trafficking

Sexual minorities

Sexuality

Smoking

Aesthetics

Anime / Manga

Architecture

Bonsai

Cinema

Class S (genre)

Cuisine (wine)

Festivals

Folklore

Gardens

Geisha

Genderless fashion

Hikikomori

Hanami

Henohenomoheji

Ikebana

Irezumi

Kawaii

LGBTQ culture

Literature

Martial arts

Mythology

National symbols

No-pan kissa

Onsen / Sentō

Otokonoko

Origami

Popular culture

Shinto

Tea ceremony

Television

Theatre

Video games

Japan portal

Category

# Okinawan cuisine


Top row: mozuku, sakurazuke, Okinawa spinach, jimami tofu

Bottom row: Okinawa seasoned rice, goya salad, Okinawa soba

Nagoya

Okinawa

Yōshoku

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Sashimi

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

List of Japanese cooking utensils

Etiquette

Kaiseki

New Year

Okinawan cuisine (Japanese: 沖縄料理, Hepburn: Okinawa ryōri) is the food culture of Okinawa Prefecture, Japan. The cuisine is also known as Ryukyuan cuisine (琉球料理, Ryūkyū ryōri), a reference to the Ryukyu Kingdom. Due to differences in culture, historical contact between other regions, climate, vegetables and other ingredients, Okinawan cuisine differs from Japanese cuisine.

History

Okinawan cuisine incorporates influences from Chinese cuisine and Southeast Asian cuisine due to its long history of trade. The sweet potato, introduced in Okinawa in 1605, became a staple food in Okinawa from then until the beginning of the 20th century. Goya (bitter melon) and nabera (luffa or towel gourd) were "likely" introduced to Okinawa from Southeast Asia. Since Ryukyu had served as a tributary state to China, Ryukyuan cooks traveled to Fujian Province to learn how to cook Chinese food; Chinese influence seeped into Okinawa in that manner. Pork, which plays an important role in the Okinawan diet, diffused in the seventeenth century in response to demands from Chinese ambassadors, who preferred it to beef. The trade with Siam (Thailand) also introduced the use of Thai Indica Rice which is used for the distillation of awamori from the 15th century. After the lord of the Satsuma Domain invaded the Ryukyus, Ryukyuan cooks traveled to Japan to study Japanese cuisine, causing that influence to seep into Okinawan cuisine.

Okinawa was administered by the United States after World War II, during which time various canned foods were popularized. American hamburger shops entered into the Okinawa market earlier than on the mainland. It was during this period that Ryukyuan became familiar with Americanized food culture. The cuisine has evolved in modern times, especially because of the American military presence on Okinawa since the end of World War II.

Character

Besides vegetables and fruits, the influences of southern and southeastern Asia are evident in Okinawan cuisine in its use of herbs and spices, such as turmeric, used in Okinawa more often than in Japan, but less frequently than other tropical island cuisines. Okinawan cuisine's condiments consist mainly of salt, miso, bonito flakes (katsuobushi) or kombu. Compared to Japanese diets, Okinawan dishes do not use as many kinds of mushroom. [citation needed]

Despite being surrounded by the sea, Ryukyuan eat relatively little seafood compared to other maritime cultures. Fish and other seafood products were traditionally difficult to preserve in the high temperatures of the Okinawan islands. Additionally, the islands are surrounded by relatively few fish species. The primary preparations of fish are pickling in salt (shio-zuke), dried, grilled, simmered in soy sauce (nitsuke), and as kamaboko, a processed seafood product typically made from white fish. Sashimi is served in Okinawa, but is limited by the inability to retain freshness due to high temperatures on the islands. Sashimi, unlike on Japan, is not part of a full course meal.

Ryukyuan make salad, soup, or tempura using seaweeds like mozuku and hijiki. Okinawan cuisine frequently uses kombu (kelp), not only in making soup stock, but also in preparing braised dishes, stir fried dishes and so on. Although it is not cultivated in the region, Okinawa is one of the largest consumers of kombu in Japan.

Okinawan staple foods are traditionally roots, such as sweet potato or taro, carotenoid and other antioxidant rich vegetables. But since 1950's they are substituted to rice or wheat flour, then Okinawans developed original dishes such as taco rice.

After the end of the occupation, they still have original food cultures, and Americanized foods are frequently eaten in their diets. But, Ryukyuan do not consume dairy foods so much, such as milk and cheese. Bread is not so popular as a staple food.

Ingredients

Meat and meat products Pork Sōki – stewed pork ribs. Beef Goat

Sōki – stewed pork ribs.

Fish Abasaa (porcupinefish) Gurukun (double-lined fusilier) Sururugwaa (silver-stripe round herring)

Abasaa (porcupinefish)

Gurukun (double-lined fusilier)

Sururugwaa (silver-stripe round herring)

Fruit Pineapples Papayas Mangoes Passion fruit Guavas Citrus fruit

Pineapples

Papayas

Mangoes

Passion fruit

Guavas

Citrus fruit

Vegetables Sweet potato (until the 1950s, they provided more than half of the daily calorie intake, then mostly replaced by grains) Cabbage Gōyā/bitter melon Nāberā/Luffa Shīkwāsā Yams Taro root Seaweed Garlic Onions Tomato Salad leaves

Sweet potato (until the 1950s, they provided more than half of the daily calorie intake, then mostly replaced by grains)

Cabbage

Gōyā/bitter melon

Nāberā/Luffa

Shīkwāsā

Taro root

Seaweed

Garlic

Onions

Tomato

Salad leaves

Bean products Oomaamii/Aomame Shima tofu

Oomaamii/Aomame

Shima tofu

Grains and grain products White rice Brown rice Fu/Seitan

White rice

Brown rice

Fu/Seitan

Common dishes of modern Okinawan cuisine

Main dishes

Chanpurū – Okinawan stir fry.

Suba (Okinawa soba) – a noodle soup vaguely resembling udon, often topped with soki ("soki-soba").

Rafute (Shoyu pork) – stewed pork belly.

Taco rice

Minudaru (steamed pork)

Keihan – chicken rice

Abura-zōmen

Side dishes

Mimigā (ミミガー) (pig's ear)

Umi-budō

Hirayachi

Tofuyo dish

Naaberaa Nbushii – miso-flavored luffa stir-fry

Alcoholic beverages

Awamori

Orion beer

Sweets

Beniimo (紅芋)

Chinsukō

Fuchagi (mochi with sweet beans)

Jīmami dōfu (peanut-tofu squares)

Sata andagi

Okinawan brown sugar

References

^ a b c "沖縄料理" [Okinawan Cuisine]. Nihon Daihyakka Zensho (Nipponika) (in Japanese). Tokyo: Shogakukan. 2013. OCLC 153301537. Archived from the original on August 25, 2007. Retrieved July 15, 2013.

^ a b c Willcox, Donald Craig; Scapagnini, Giovanni; Willcox, Bradley J. (2014). "Healthy aging diets other than the Mediterranean: a focus on the Okinawan diet". Mechanisms of Ageing and Development. 136–137: 148–162. doi:10.1016/j.mad.2014.01.002. ISSN 1872-6216. PMC 5403516. PMID 24462788.

^ Sand, Jordan (November 3, 2021). "People, animals, and island encounters: A pig's history of the Pacific". Journal of Global History. 17 (3): 355–373. doi:10.1017/S1740022821000383. ISSN 1740-0228. S2CID 243465562.

^ a b "Awamori and Pork Curry – Japan Airlines". jal.japantravel.com. Retrieved March 20, 2022.

^ Ishige, Naomichi. "Food Forum Okinawa Archived 2008-05-17 at the Wayback Machine." Kikkoman. Retrieved on November 30, 2009.

^ Beare, Sally (2006). 50 secrets of the world's longest living people. New York: Marlowe & Co. ISBN 9781569243480.

^ "Seaweed: The Superfood of the Sea". Kokoro Cares.

^ "大琉球語辞典". ryukyu-lang.lab.u-ryukyu.ac.jp. Retrieved October 29, 2025.

^ "大琉球語辞典". ryukyu-lang.lab.u-ryukyu.ac.jp. Retrieved October 29, 2025.

^ a b c Takagi, Rin (2020). Traditional Cuisine of the Ryukyu Islands: A History of Health and Healing. Tokyo: Japan Publishing Foundation for Culture. ISBN 9784866581316.

Chahan

Curry Katsu curry

Katsu curry

Glutinous

Hatsuga genmai

Donmono Chūkadon Gyūdon Katsudon Oyakodon Tekkadon Tenshindon Unadon

Chūkadon

Gyūdon

Katsudon

Oyakodon

Tekkadon

Tenshindon

Unadon

Hayashi rice

Onigiri Tenmusu

Tenmusu

Omurice

Sushi History Sustainable

History

Sustainable

Sekihan

Takikomi

Harusame

Hiyamugi

Hiyashi chūka

Ramen Champon Kagoshima Muroran curry Tantan-men Tonkotsu Tsukemen

Champon

Kagoshima

Muroran curry

Tantan-men

Tonkotsu

Tsukemen

Shirataki

Okinawa soba Soki

Sōmen Salad

Udon Yakiudon

Yakiudon

Yakisoba

Monjayaki

Okonomiyaki Hirayachi

Hirayachi

Takoyaki

Melonpan

Milk bread

Yudane

Agedashi dōfu

Agemono Furai Karaage Korokke Kushikatsu Satsuma-age Tempura

Karaage

Korokke

Kushikatsu

Satsuma-age

Tempura

Chawanmushi

Chikuzenni

Kabayaki

Kakuni

Kushiyaki

Nabemono

Namasu

Nikujaga

Onsen tamago

Sashimi Fugusashi

Fugusashi

Shabu-shabu

Shiokara

Sukiyaki

Tamagoyaki

Tokoroten

Tonkatsu

Tororo

Tsukemono Nukazuke Takuan

Nukazuke

Takuan

Tsukudani

Tsukune

Yakiniku

Yakitori

Tonjiru

Kenchin-jiru

Miso soup

Suimono [ja]

Bento Ekiben Kyaraben Makunouchi Wappameshi

Ekiben

Kyaraben

Makunouchi

Wappameshi

Honzen-ryōri

Jūbako

Kaiseki

Osechi

Sake Amazake Nigori Toso

Amazake

Nigori

Shōchū Awamori Habushu Umeshu

Awamori

Habushu

Umeshu

Green tea History Bancha Gyokuro Hōjicha Kabuse Kukicha Matcha Matcha latte Sencha Uji

History

Bancha

Gyokuro

Hōjicha

Kabuse

Kukicha

Matcha Matcha latte

Matcha latte

Sencha

Herbal teas Genmaicha Sobacha Kombu-cha Mugicha

Genmaicha

Sobacha

Kombu-cha

Mugicha

Ramune

Aojiru

C.C. Lemon

Calpis

Canned coffee Boss Georgia

Georgia

Energy drinks Lipovitan Oronamin C

Lipovitan

Oronamin C

Sports drinks Aquarius Pocari Sweat

Aquarius

Pocari Sweat

Yakult

Amanattō

Botan Rice Candy

Daifuku

Dango Chichi Kibi

Chichi

Dorayaki

Karukan

Konpeitō

Mochi Agemochi Goheimochi Kankoro Kuzumochi Zunda-mochi

Agemochi

Goheimochi

Kankoro

Kuzumochi

Zunda-mochi

Senbei Arare

Shiruko

Taiyaki

Warabimochi

Square watermelon

Yubari King

Ruby Roman

Shine Muscat

Aonori

Bamboo shoot

Beni shōga

Burdock

Daikon Sakurajima

Sakurajima

Fish Kamaboko Mentaiko / tarako Surimi Tobiko

Kamaboko

Mentaiko / tarako

Surimi

Tobiko

Hijiki

Kanzuri

Karashi

Katsuobushi

Konnyaku

Kuromitsu

Kuzuko

Mayonnaise

Mushrooms Enokitake Matsutake Shiitake

Enokitake

Matsutake

Shiitake

Sake kasu

Sansyō

Sauce Ponzu Soy Tare Tonkatsu Worcestershire

Tonkatsu

Worcestershire

Sesame oil

Shichimi

Tenkasu

Umeboshi

Wasabi

Yuzu Yuzu koshō

Yuzu koshō

Chawan

Chopsticks

Kitchen knife Deba bōchō Gyuto Maguro bōchō Nakiri bōchō Santoku Sashimi bōchō Usuba bōchō Yanagi ba

Deba bōchō

Maguro bōchō

Nakiri bōchō

Santoku

Sashimi bōchō

Usuba bōchō

Yanagi ba

Rice cooker

Shamoji

Suribachi

Dishes Ramen Soups and stews

Soups and stews

Sushi and sashimi ingredients

Chinmi

Ichijū-sansai

Itameshi

Omakase

Teppanyaki

Tokusanhin

Teriyaki

Customs and etiquette

Okinawan cuisine

Category

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

United States

Israel

Yale LUX

# Awamori


Awamori (Japanese: 泡盛; Okinawan: アームイ, āmui, aamui) is an alcoholic beverage indigenous and unique to the Ryukyuan cuisine of Okinawa Prefecture, Japan. It is made from long grain indica rice, and is not a direct product of brewing (like sake) but of distillation (like shōchū). The majority of Aamui made today uses indica rice imported from Thailand, as the local production is largely insufficient to meet domestic demand, which has risen considerably in recent years.

Awamori is typically 60–86 proof (30–43% alcohol), although export brands (including brands shipped to mainland Japan) are increasingly 50 proof (25% alcohol). Some styles (notably hanadaki (Japanese:hanazake)) are 120 proof (60%) and are flammable. Aamui is aged in traditional clay pots to improve its flavor and mellowness.

The most popular way to drink aamui is with water and ice. When served in a restaurant in Okinawa, it will nearly always be accompanied by a container of ice and carafe of water. Aamui can also be drunk straight, on the rocks, and in cocktails. Traditionally, aamui was served in a kara-kara, a small earthen vessel with a small clay marble inside. The marble would make a distinctive "kara-kara" sound to let people know the vessel was empty. These vessels are still found in Okinawa, but the clay marbles are often absent.

Another name for awamori used in Okinawa is sima-jaki (Japanese: 島酒, romanized: shima-zake, lit. '"island sake"'), or shima for short.

In general, the price of awamori increases with the beverage's age.

Kōrēgusu (Okinawan: Kooreegusu) is a type of hot sauce made of chillis infused in awamori and is a popular condiment to Okinawan dishes such as suba.

In December 2024, UNESCO added knowledge and traditional techniques used for making sake, aamui and shochu to its Intangible Cultural Heritage list.

Awamori is the oldest distilled alcoholic drink in Japan, it is believed to predate sochu.

History

Awamori owes its existence to Okinawa's trading history. It originates from the Thai drink lao khao. The technique of distilling reached Ryukyu Kingdom, today's Okinawa, from the Ayutthaya Kingdom (roughly present-day Thailand) in the 15th century, a time when Okinawa served as a major trading intermediary between Southeast Asia, China, and Japan. All aamui is made from Thai (indica) rice. The Okinawans refined the distillation process, incorporating techniques from nearby countries, making it more suitable for the subtropical climate and incorporating the unique local black koji mold. From the 15th to 19th century, aamui was sent as a tribute to Okinawa's powerful neighbors, to the shogun during the Edo period, and was served to show hospitality to envoys from China. Strict control for the production and sale of aamui was implemented by the Ryukyu government, which only allowed the upper classes consumption and serving overseas dignitaries, including Commodore Matthew C. Perry.

Before April 1983, aamui was labelled as a second class shochu; it is now labelled as "authentic aamui".

In 2017, facing declining sales in the home market, three of Okinawa's prominent aamui distilleries combined their efforts to introduce aamui to overseas markets, specifically to the US and Europe. The product, branded Ryukyu 1429, made its UK debut in June 2019.

Production

Although awamori is a distilled rice liquor, it differs from Japanese shochu in several ways. awamori is made in a single fermentation while shochu usually uses two fermentations. Furthermore, awaori uses Thai-style, long-grained indica crushed rice rather than the short-grained japonica usually used in shochu production. Finally, awamori exclusively uses black koji mold (Aspergillus luchuensis) indigenous to Okinawa, while Japanese shochu uses white (A. luchuensis var. kawachii), black (Aspergillus awamori), and yellow (Aspergillus oryzae) koji molds.

When aamui is aged for three years or more, it is called Okinawan: クース/古酒, romanized: Kuusju, kusu (古酒; "old liquor"). This pronunciation, which derives from Okinawan, is unique to awamori; elsewhere in Japan, the word is pronounced "koshu" and refers to aged sake. Legally, in order to earn the designation "kusu", the awamori must be aged for a minimum of three years. If a specific age is noted, then all of the contents must be of at least that age. Aamui is aged underground in constant cool temperatures in clay pots or vases. Containers of awamori can be found in the caves of Okinawa.

Before the Battle of Okinawa during World War II, 200- and even 300-year-old kusu existed, but most of the oldest kusu were lost in the battle. However, the Shikina Distillery in Shuri own 100- and 150-year-old Kuusju which are thought to be to be the oldest surviving. There are ongoing attempts to once again produce 200- and 300-year-old Kuusju.

Hanadaki

On Yonaguni, Ryukyu Islands' westernmost island, the three distilleries of Donan, Yonaguni and Maifuna produce a variant of aamui called hanadaki(Yonaguni: ハナダキ/花酒, romanized : hanadaki), lit. "flower liquor", which has an alcohol content of 60%. Originally intended for religious ceremonies, hanadaki is traditionally consumed straight.

Etymology

The earliest known use of the term awamori (泡盛) is in a 1671 record of a gift from Shoo Tii (Japanese:Shō Tei) of the Ryukyu Kingdom to the fourth shōgun, Tokugawa Ietsuna. Awamori was sent as a gift to the shogunate prior to 1671, but it was recorded as shōchū (焼酒 or 焼酎) in earlier records.

Several explanations exist for the etymology of the word awamori. The Okinawan historian Iha Fuyū believed that the name derives from the word for millet (粟, awa), compounded with a verb-derived noun meaning "heaped amount; serving" (盛り, mori). On this theory, the word was recorded incorrectly with the first character as "bubble, foam" (泡, awa) rather than the character for millet (粟, awa). Millet was a raw material used to make awamori at the time that the word was first used.

Another hypothesis is that the name comes from a method that was used in the past for assessing the quality of distilled liquors. This method was to slowly pour the liquor from a small bowl held in one hand into an empty bowl held in the other hand about one foot below. The desired result was for a large number of small bubbles (泡, awa) to rise and swell (盛, mori) in the lower bowl as the liquor is poured into it. Longer-lasting bubbles were also seen as desirable.

See also

Drink portal

Habushu

List of rice beverages

^ Pellegrini, Christopher (July 22, 2014). The Shochu Handbook – An Introduction to Japan's Indigenous Distilled Drink. Telemachus Press. p. 21. ISBN 978-1940745282.

^ "Awamori – Kampai!".

^ Pellegrini, Christopher (July 22, 2014). The Shochu Handbook – An Introduction to Japan's Indigenous Distilled Drink. Telemachus Press. p. 67. ISBN 978-1940745282.

^ "Traditional Japanese Brewing Recognized by UNESCO". NHK WORLD. 20 January 2025. Retrieved 14 February 2025.

^ "Japan sake-brewing added to UNESCO intangible heritage". Kyodo News+. 5 December 2025. Retrieved 14 February 2025.

^ a b "Awamori: Okinawa's Iconic Spirit". Visit Okinawa Japan | Official Okinawa Travel Guide. Retrieved 14 February 2025.

^ "日本の酒・本格焼酎と泡盛". www.japansake.or.jp (in Japanese). Retrieved 14 February 2025.

^ a b Nakasone, Ronald Y. (2002). Okinawan diaspora. University of Hawaii Press.

^ a b "Tracing the Roots of Awamori". Visit Okinawa Japan | Official Okinawa Travel Guide. Retrieved 2025-02-14.

^ "Entertaining Honored Guests" (PDF). mlit.go.jp.

^ Hagio, Toshiaki (31 March 2016). "泡盛今昔" (PDF). isc.senshu-u.ac.jp (in Japanese). pp. 14, 29. Retrieved 14 February 2025.

^ "ペリー提督一行も味わった泡盛「醸造古く、まろやか」酒宴の記述 ユネスコ無形遺産登録". Ryukyu Shimpo (in Japanese). 6 December 2024. Retrieved 2025-02-14.

^ "3 Okinawan liquor makers hold strategy meeting with foreign marketing specialists to develop the "Awamori Brand"". Ryukyu Shimpo – Okinawa, Japanese newspaper, local news. Retrieved 2019-08-26.

^ "Public and private sectors push to revive Okinawa's struggling awamori industry". The Japan Times Online. 2018-10-12. ISSN 0447-5763. Retrieved 2019-08-26.

^ "Japanese Awamori Spirits Draw Attention at London Show". nippon.com. 2019-07-02. Archived from the original on 2020-11-16. Retrieved 2019-08-26.

^ Chris., Bunting; クリス・バンティング. (2011). Drinking Japan : a guide to Japan's best drinks and drinking establishments. Tokyo: Tuttle Pub. ISBN 9784805310540. OCLC 654312874.

^ Taiki Futagami. "The white koji fungus Aspergillus luchuensis mut. kawachii. Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Biochemistry, Volume 86, Issue 5". Japan Society for Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Agrochemistry. pp. 574–584. Archived from the original on 9 April 2023. Retrieved 9 April 2023.

^ John Gauntner (2004). "Shochu & Awamori". Sake World. Archived from the original on 29 November 2010. Retrieved 2016-11-06.

^ "沖縄で現存する最古１５０年物の泡盛古酒を訪ねた". 琉球新報 Style (in Japanese). Retrieved 2022-06-27.

^ "沖縄最古の泡盛". 沖縄泡盛酒造所 有限会社 識名酒造 – 古風味豊かな琉球泡盛「時雨」・「歓」 (in Japanese). Retrieved 2022-06-27.

^ "古酒とは | 古酒は沖縄の宝 | 現存する最古の古酒は？". 琉球泡盛 (in Japanese). Retrieved 2022-06-27.[permanent dead link]

^ a b c "泡盛とは | 泡盛基礎知識 | 泡盛の名前の由来". 琉球泡盛 (in Japanese). Retrieved 2022-06-27.

References

Okinawa Prefectural Government, "Awamori", Okinawa: Cultural Promotion Division, Okinawa Tourism and Cultural Affairs Bureau, 1996.

External links

What is Awamori? Archived 2019-02-21 at the Wayback Machine

RYUKYU1429 Awamori Archived 2022-06-15 at the Wayback Machine

History of alcoholic beverages

History of beer

History of wine History of Bordeaux wine History of Champagne History of Chianti History of Rioja wine History of Sherry

History of Bordeaux wine

History of Champagne

History of Chianti

History of Rioja wine

History of Sherry

Alcohol industry

Bathtub gin

Brewing Brewery Malting Lautering Wort Yeast

Brewery

Malting

Lautering

Distillation

Drinking establishments

Fermentation Simple syrup Yeast in winemaking

Simple syrup

Yeast in winemaking

Winemaking Yeast in winemaking

Yeast in winemaking

Apple Cider

Banana Banana beer Banana wine

Banana beer

Banana wine

Bignay Bignay wine

Bignay wine

Bokbunja Bokbunja-ju

Bokbunja-ju

Grape Madeira wine Marsala wine Mistelle Moscatel de Setúbal Orange wine Port wine Red wine Rosé wine Sherry Vermouth White wine

Madeira wine

Marsala wine

Mistelle

Moscatel de Setúbal

Orange wine

Port wine

Red wine

Rosé wine

Sherry

Vermouth

White wine

Java plum Duhat wine

Duhat wine

Longan Longan wine

Longan wine

Lychee Lychee wine

Lychee wine

Pear Perry

Pineapple Tepache

Tepache

Plum Plum jerkum

Plum jerkum

Pomegranate Rimon

Prickly pear Colonche

Colonche

Various fruits Conditum Dubonnet Hippocras Jabol Mulled wine Nabidh Pruno Sangria

Conditum

Dubonnet

Hippocras

Mulled wine

Nabidh

Sangria

Barley Barley wine

Barley wine

Corn Mageu Pozol Tejuino Tesgüino

Tejuino

Tesgüino

Millet Oshikundu Tongba

Oshikundu

Tongba

Rice Agkud Amazake Apo Beopju Brem Choujiu Chuak Dansul Gwaha-ju Hariya Makgeolli Mijiu Mirin Pangasi Rice wine Rượu cần Sake Sato Shaoxing wine Sonti Tapai Tapuy Zu

Amazake

Beopju

Choujiu

Dansul

Gwaha-ju

Hariya

Makgeolli

Pangasi

Rice wine

Rượu cần

Shaoxing wine

Rye Kvass

Sorghum Pendhā

Pendhā

Multiple grains Ale Ara Beer Boza Huangjiu

Huangjiu

Agave americana Pulque

Pulque

Coconut and other palms Bahalina Palm wine Tuak Tubâ Tuhak Tunggang

Bahalina

Palm wine

Tunggang

Dairy Kumis

Ginger Ginger wine

Ginger wine

Galangal Byais

Honey Bais Byais Kabarawan Mead

Kabarawan

Sugar Kilju

Sugarcane or molasses Basi Intus Palek

Tea Fermented tea Kombucha

Fermented tea

Kombucha

Various starches Cauim Chicha Parakari Ibwatu

Chicha

Parakari

Ibwatu

Apple Applejack Calvados

Applejack

Calvados

Cashew apple Feni

Cherry Kirschwasser

Kirschwasser

Dates Araqi

Fig Boukha

Boukha

Grape Arak Armagnac Brandy Cognac Pisco Zivania

Armagnac

Brandy

Cognac

Zivania

Juniper Gin

Pear Poire Williams

Poire Williams

Plum Slivovitz Țuică

Slivovitz

Pomace Chacha Grappa Marc Orujo Tsikoudia Tsipouro Zivania

Chacha

Grappa

Tsikoudia

Tsipouro

Zivania

Various fruits Eau de vie Fruit brandy Geist Himbeergeist Marillenschnaps Nalewka Oghi Pálinka Rakia Schnaps

Eau de vie

Fruit brandy

Himbeergeist

Marillenschnaps

Nalewka

Pálinka

Schnaps

Barley Irish whiskey Japanese whisky Scotch whisky

Irish whiskey

Japanese whisky

Scotch whisky

Beer Bierbrand

Bierbrand

Buckwheat Buckwheat whisky

Buckwheat whisky

Maize Bourbon whiskey Corn whiskey Tennessee whiskey

Bourbon whiskey

Corn whiskey

Tennessee whiskey

Rice Awamori Cheongju Cholai Lao-Lao Lihing Mixiang Baijiu Shochu Soju Sulai

Awamori

Cheongju

Cholai

Lao-Lao

Lihing

Mixiang Baijiu

Shochu

Rye Korn Rye whiskey Starka

Rye whiskey

Starka

Sorghum Baijiu (Kaoliang liquor)

Baijiu (Kaoliang liquor)

Multiple grains Ara American whiskey Baijiu Canadian whisky Shōchū Whisky

American whiskey

Baijiu

Canadian whisky

Shōchū

Whisky

Agave Mezcal Tequila

Mezcal

Tequila

Coconut and other palms Arrack Laksoy Lambanog Sotol

Arrack

Laksoy

Lambanog

Dairy Arkhi

Maple syrup Acerum

Acerum

Sugarcane or molasses Aguardiente Cachaça Clairin Desi daru Guaro Rum Seco Herrerano Sulai Sura Tharra

Aguardiente

Cachaça

Clairin

Desi daru

Seco Herrerano

Tharra

Various starches Aguardiente Akvavit Bangla Horilka Poitín Shōchū Vodka

Aguardiente

Akvavit

Bangla

Horilka

Poitín

Shōchū

Almond Amaretto Crème de Noyaux

Amaretto

Crème de Noyaux

Anise Absinthe Anisado Anisado Mallorca Anisette Arak Hierbas Hierbas de Mallorca Mastika Ouzo Rakı Sambuca

Absinthe

Anisado Anisado Mallorca

Anisado Mallorca

Anisado Mallorca

Anisette

Hierbas Hierbas de Mallorca

Hierbas de Mallorca

Hierbas de Mallorca

Mastika

Sambuca

Beer Bierlikör

Bierlikör

Blackcurrant buds Kontabas

Kontabas

Blackthorn shrub Patxaran

Patxaran

Caraway Kümmel

Kümmel

Cherry Cherry Heering Guignolet Maraschino Wiśniówka/Vyshnivka

Cherry Heering

Guignolet

Maraschino

Wiśniówka/Vyshnivka

Chili peppers Pertsivka

Pertsivka

Chocolate Chocolate liqueur

Chocolate liqueur

Cinnamon Tentura

Tentura

Cloudberry Lakka

Coconut Malibu

Malibu

Coffee Kahlúa Tia Maria

Kahlúa

Tia Maria

Cream Cream liqueur Irish cream

Cream liqueur

Irish cream

Egg Advocaat Eggnog

Advocaat

Eggnog

Hazelnut Frangelico

Frangelico

Herbs Amaro Aquavit Aperol Becherovka Bénédictine Bitters Brennivín Chartreuse Crème de menthe Crème de violette Jägermeister Kräuterlikör Metaxa Riga Black Balsam Vana Tallinn Unicum Żubrówka

Aquavit

Aperol

Becherovka

Bénédictine

Bitters

Brennivín

Chartreuse

Crème de menthe

Crème de violette

Jägermeister

Kräuterlikör

Metaxa

Riga Black Balsam

Vana Tallinn

Unicum

Żubrówka

Honey Bärenjäger Drambuie Glayva Irish Mist Krambambula Krupnik

Bärenjäger

Drambuie

Glayva

Irish Mist

Krambambula

Krupnik

Juniper Borovička Brinjevec Gin Jenever

Borovička

Brinjevec

Jenever

Mammee apple flower Eau créole

Eau créole

Maple syrup Maple liqueur

Maple liqueur

Orange Cointreau Curaçao Grand Marnier Triple sec

Cointreau

Curaçao

Grand Marnier

Triple sec

Raspberry Chambord

Chambord

Star anise Pastis Sassolino

Pastis

Sassolino

Sugarcane/molasses Charanda

Charanda

Vanilla Licor 43

Licor 43

Various fruits Campari Cedratine Crème de banane Crème de cassis Limoncello Nalewka Schnapps Sloe gin

Campari

Cedratine

Crème de banane

Crème de cassis

Limoncello

Nalewka

Schnapps

Sloe gin

Walnut Nocino

Nocino

Amazake

Andong soju

Awamori

Baekse-ju

Beopju

Cheongju Beopju

Beopju

Chhaang

Choujiu

Cơm rượu

Dansul

Gwaha-ju

Huangjiu

Jiuniang

Kuchikamizake

Lao khao

Lihing

Makgeolli

Nigori

Pangasi

Rice baijiu

Rice shochu

Rượu cần

Rượu đế

Rượu nếp

Shaoxing wine

Sra peang

Tamagozake

Black vinegar

Brown rice green tea

Brown rice tea

Genmaicha

Horchata

Jūrokucha

Kokkoh

Rice milk

Rice water

Sikhye

Sungnyung

List of rice drinks

# Nagoya cuisine


Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate, is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia.

Consider adding a topic to this template: there are already 1,435 articles in the main category, and specifying|topic= will aid in categorization.

Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article.

You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing Japanese Wikipedia article at [[:ja:名古屋めし]]; see its history for attribution.

You may also add the template {{Translated|ja|名古屋めし}} to the talk page.

For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation.

Nagoya

Okinawa

Yōshoku

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Sashimi

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

List of Japanese cooking utensils

Etiquette

Kaiseki

New Year

Nagoya cuisine (名古屋めし, Nagoya meshi) is a Japanese regional cuisine of the city of Nagoya and surrounding region in Central Japan. Due to differences in culture, historical contact with other regions, climate, and availability of ingredients, Nagoya cuisine has a distinctive style and unique aspects. Although many dishes derive from local tradition, Nagoya cuisine has also been inspired by foreign cuisines such as Taiwanese cuisine and Italian cuisine. Seasonings such as hatchō miso, mame miso, or tamari (a type of soy sauce produced mainly in the region) characterize the representative foods of Nagoya cuisine.

Nagoya cuisine can be classified into five main categories:

Miso-based (misokatsu, etc.)

Chicken-based (tebasaki, etc.)

Italian-style (ankake spaghetti, etc.)

Asian-style (Taiwan ramen, etc.)

Cafe foods (ogura toast, etc.)

Nagoya kōchin chicken has been a traditional ingredient of Nagoya cuisine since prewar times. Shrimp – especially fried shrimp, "ebi fry" (エビフライ, ebi furai), pronounced ebi furyā (エビフリャー) in Nagoya dialect – is another specialty, and is the "official marine life symbol" of the prefecture. Dishes inspired by foreign food, including various local spaghetti dishes and "Taiwanese" noodles, have become an increasingly significant part of Nagoya cuisine.

Local dishes

Tebasaki: Chicken wings marinated in a sweet sauce with sesame seeds and other seasoning. Similar to yakitori.

Kishimen: Flat udon noodles with a slippery texture, dipped in a light soy sauce soup and with sliced leek or other toppings. It can be eaten warm or cold.

Various dishes made with red miso: Misokatsu: Pork cutlet with sweet miso sauce Miso nikomi udon: Hard udon stewed in miso soup Miso oden: Miso-flavored oden stew Doteni: A dish of pork or beef innards stewed with soybean miso common in the Tōkai region, considered a type of miso oden. Often stewed with daikon and konnyaku. Elsewhere in Japan, it is made with soy sauce stock and called motsuni. Dotenabe: Miso nabemono with meat and vegetables

Misokatsu: Pork cutlet with sweet miso sauce

Miso nikomi udon: Hard udon stewed in miso soup

Miso oden: Miso-flavored oden stew Doteni: A dish of pork or beef innards stewed with soybean miso common in the Tōkai region, considered a type of miso oden. Often stewed with daikon and konnyaku. Elsewhere in Japan, it is made with soy sauce stock and called motsuni.

Doteni: A dish of pork or beef innards stewed with soybean miso common in the Tōkai region, considered a type of miso oden. Often stewed with daikon and konnyaku. Elsewhere in Japan, it is made with soy sauce stock and called motsuni.

Dotenabe: Miso nabemono with meat and vegetables

Ogura toast: Toast spread with adzuki red bean paste (anko) and optionally butter. Originating in Nagoya, it is commonly served for breakfast as part of "morning service" in cafés in Aichi Prefecture.

Hitsumabushi: A rice dish with unagi (eel) in a lidded wooden container. This dish is enjoyed three ways: as unadon, with seasoning, and as chazuke.

Nagoya kōchin: A special breed of free-range chicken cross-bred between Nagoya chicken and a Cochin. The time until maturity is 2.5 times that of broiler chicken and its meat is juicy and tender, without a strong scent. Toriwasa: Sashimi made of Nagoya kōchin, using the flesh, liver, heart, and gizzard.

Toriwasa: Sashimi made of Nagoya kōchin, using the flesh, liver, heart, and gizzard.

Ankake spaghetti: Spaghetti noodles in thick, starchy, slightly spicy, tomato-based sauce and topped with vegetables or meat (often spinach, peppers, and ham), or other toppings such as cheese, eggs, or corn.

Taiwan ramen: Spicy ramen with soy sauce-based soup, topped with a mixture of ground pork (minced meat), garlic, and chili pepper powder, along with chives or bean sprouts. Created in Nagoya in the 1970s by a Taiwanese chef.

Uirō: Rice dumplings made by mixing rice flour with sugar and then steaming the mixture. The name is said to have come from a Chinese medicine that resembled it in color; it is assumed that the medicine was brought by Chinese medicine vendors to Japan before the 15th century.

Tenmusu: Rice balls wrapped in nori with tempura at the center. This dish originated in Tsu, Mie Prefecture and became popular in Nagoya.

Moriguchizuke: Pickles made of Moriguchi daikon. The radish, about one and a half meters long and two centimeters in diameter, is pickled in barrels of sake and other seasoning. Due to their length, radishes must be packed along the inner wall of the barrel, one on top of the other.

Oni manjū: A traditional sweet and type of manjū. The main ingredients are flour and sweet potato.

Tamasen: A street food commonly served at festivals made with rice crackers (senbei) sandwiching a fried egg, okonomiyaki sauce, and mayonnaise

Shiruko sando biscuits: Crunchy biscuits with red bean (shiruko)

Gallery

Kishimen noodle soup

Misokatsu

Miso nikomi udon

Hitsumabushi

Tebasaki

Ankake spaghetti

Teppan spaghetti

Indian spaghetti

Ogura toast

Shironoir

Taiwan ramen

Ramen from Sugakiya [ja]

Oni-manju

Tenmusu

References

^ Carr, Stephen (2011-07-26). "Nagoya: What's the best reason to visit Nagoya?". The Japan Times. Retrieved 2026-03-02.

^ "Savor the Unique Taste of Nagoya". aichinow.pref.aichi.jp. Retrieved 2026-03-02.

^ Carter, Stephen. "Nagoya Meshi Samurai Cuisine". Experience Nagoya, Central Japan. Meitetsu. Retrieved 2026-03-02.

^ a b Aoyama, Tadayasu; Harada, Tamotsu (2015). "名古屋料理のスタイルデザイン" [Style design of Nagoya cuisine]. 食文化のスタイルデザイン [Food Culture Style Design] (in Japanese). Daigaku Kyoiku Shuppan. pp. 276–292. ISBN 978-4-86429-338-9.

^ "Aichi - Nagoya Unique Quality Souvenirs". aichinow.pref.aichi.jp. Retrieved 2026-03-02.

^ a b c d Patrick St. Michel (11 November 2016). "Nagoya: Home to Japan's most unique cuisine?". CNN Travel.

^ a b c "Nagoya Food Guide". Japan Guide.

^ "Dote-ni". Nagoya Meshi. Archived from the original on 2025-07-08. Retrieved 2025-12-14.

^ "Ankake Spaghetti". Naoya Meshi. Retrieved 2025-12-14.

^ Tsai, Hannah (2019-10-04). "Taiwan ramen is Nagoyan cuisine? Here are 4 must-eat so-called Taiwan foods in Nagoya, tried and tested by a Taiwan native!". Centrip Japan. Retrieved 2025-12-14.

^ Inada, S. (2011). Simply Onigiri: fun and creative recipes for Japanese rice balls. Marshall Cavendish International (Asia) Private Limited. p. 86. ISBN 978-981-4484-95-4. Retrieved June 16, 2017.

^ Kikuko. "Moriguchidzuke". Love Nagoya; Know Nagoya.

External links

Nagoya-meshi Promotion Association

# Ainu cuisine


Ainu cuisine is the cuisine of the ethnic Ainu in Japan and Russia. The cuisine differs markedly from that of the majority Yamato people of Japan. Raw meat like sashimi, for example, is rarely served in Ainu cuisine, which instead uses methods such as boiling, roasting and curing to prepare meat. Also unlike Japanese cuisine, traditional Ainu cuisine did not use miso, soy sauce, or sugar, though these seasonings make an appearance in modern Ainu cuisine. The island of Hokkaidō in northern Japan is where most Ainu live today; however, they once inhabited most of the Kuril Islands, the southern half of Sakhalin island, and parts of northern Honshū Island.

There are very few Ainu restaurants in the world, though some do exist. Examples of Ainu restaurants include Haru Koro (Harukor) in Shinjuku, Tokyo, Ashiri Kotan Nakanoshima in Sapporo, and Poron'no and Marukibune in Akan, Hokkaidō.

Overview

Traditional Ainu cuisine used meats obtained through fishing and hunting such as salmon and deer, wild plants gathered in the mountains such as Cardiocrinum cordatum bulbs (turep) and acorns, as well as various grains and potatoes obtained through farming. Another feature is its liberal use of oils as flavoring. Due to the Ainu's reliance on local game and fauna, not all areas used all the same ingredients, instead utilizing what was most available.

In addition to salt, the fats (sum) from cod, sardines, herring, shark, seal, whale (humpesum), sika deer (yuksum), and bear (pasum) are used to flavor dishes. Miso and soy sauce have also been used in modern times. Soup stocks may be made using kelp (kombu), animal bone, and dried fish. Seasoning and spices include pukusa (Allium ochotense), berries from the Amur corktree (Phellodendron amurense), and wavy bittercress (Cardamine flexuosa).

Ingredients

The most predominate game animal was the sika deer. Deer were hunted using poisoned arrows as well as by herding them off cliffs and gathering them from where they fell. In the past, deer were so common and easily hunted in Hokkaidō that it was said one could “put the pot on the fire, then go hunting”.

Brown bear (kimun kamuy)

Chipmunk (ruop)

Eurasian jay (parkew)

Eurasian tree sparrow (amameciri)

Ezo red fox (cironnup)

Hazel Grouse (humiruy)

Japanese marten (hoinu)

Mallard (kopeca)

Oriental turtle dove (kusuyep)

Rabbit (isopo kamuy)

Raccoon dog (moyuk)

Sika deer (yuk)

Fish and sea creatures

The Ainu fished at sea in dugout canoes using harpoons to hunt a variety of large marine animals and used nets and fishing rods to bring in smaller creatures. Beached whales were particularly prized, as generally it was impossible to bring a whale in using canoes and harpoons. However, there were some instances of whaling in Funka Bay using harpoons coated with wolfsbane poison, aided by the gentle tides. The Ainu also used a number of tools including fishing rods, nets, traps (uray), and fishing baskets (raomap) to catch freshwater fish.

Bathyraja lindbergi (uttap)

Capelin (susam)

Cod (erekus)

Crucian carp (rampara)

Dolphin (tannup)

Flounder (samampe)

Fur seal (unew)

Japanese dace (supun)

Japanese fluvial sculpin (cimikani)

Japanese huchen (ciray)

Japanese smelt (tokikar)

Masu salmon (icankot)

Ocean sunfish (kinapo)

Pacific herring (heroki)

Pond loach (cicira)

Salmon (kamuycep)

Saffron cod (komay)

Sardine (iwashi)

Sea lion (etaspe)

Seal (tukar)

Shark (same)

Sturgeon (yupe)

Swordfish (sirkap)

Trout (icaniw)

Whitespotted char (tuksis)

Gathered plants

While men were responsible for hunting and fishing, women were responsible for gathering edible plants, beginning in early spring. Tools used during gathering trips into the mountains included the saranip (a bag woven from the fibers of the Japanese lime tree), the menoko makiri (a small women's knife), itani (a type of digging stick), and the shitap (a small pick made from deer horn). One of the most important mountain plants gathered in spring was the Siberian onion (pukusa), which is very similar to wild leeks found in Canada and the United States in taste, texture, and appearance. Large quantities of Cardiocrinum cordatum bulbs (turep) were gathered in summer as they were important as a preserved food.

Spring

Anemone flaccida (ohaw kina or pukusakina)

Angelica (cihue)

Butterbur (makayo)

Bracken (warumbi)

Cow parsnip (pittok)

Hog peanut (eha)

Japanese butterbur (korkoni)

Japanese mugwort (noya)

Japanese spikenard (cimakina)

Lance asiabell roots (topmuk)

Long-stamen chive bulbs (mempiro)

Maianthemum japonicum (pepero)

Marsh-marigold roots (pui)

Ostrich fern (sorma)

Siberian onion (pukusa)

Symplocarpus renifolius (sikerpe kina)

Thistle (ancami)

Summer

Cardiocrinum cordatum bulbs (turep)

Amur cork tree berries (sikerpe)

Crimson glory vine fruit (hat)

Hardy kiwi fruit (kutci)

Hen-of-the-woods mushroom (yuk karus)

Japanese chestnuts (yam)

Japanese emperor oak acorns (nisew)

Japanese rose fruit (maw)

Mushroom (karus)

Oak acorns (pero)

Walnuts (neshiko)

Water caltrop fruit (pekampe)

Farming was already taking place in Hokkaidō during the Jōmon period, prior to the Satsumon period in which the Ainu culture first emerged. However, agriculture began to decline in the 12th century up until the Ainu period. This is thought to be caused by the increase in demand for dried fish and furs for trade with Honshū, leading to increased importance in hunting and fishing, rather than colder weather. Cultivated crops changed over the years as new crops were introduced, such as potatoes, kabocha, and beans.

Bean varieties (mame)

Buckwheat (soba)

Foxtail millet (munchiro)

Japanese millet (piyap)

Potato (imo)

Proso millet (menkul)

Pumpkin (kabocha)

Turnip (atane)

Primary dishes

Citatap

Citatap translated from Ainu means “that which has been pounded”. As the name suggests, citatap is meat or fish that has been pounded in a way similar to the Japanese method tataki.

Making citatap

Salmon head, milt, and remains from filleting are placed on a cutting board-like round piece of wood sliced from a tree trunk (itatani). The meat is chopped and beaten with a sharp heavy object, such as a hatchet.

The resulting paste is flavored with minced spring onion, pukusa, or long-stamen chive.

Finally, the citatap is seasoned with dried kelp and salt.

Other than salmon, a variety of meats and fish are used to add flavor to citatap such as Japanese dace, bathyraja lindbergi, masu salmon, Japanese fluvial sculpin, deer, bear, tanuki, rabbit, and chipmunk. Citatap was well suited to the meat of older animals, as it made the tough meat easier to eat. Citatap was primarily made in the winter, when food spoiled more slowly, and was eaten over a number of days. If the citatap was not particularly fresh, it was formed into balls and added to soup.

Ohaw is soup made from boiling fish or meats with various vegetables. It may have the consistency of soup, or be more like a Japanese nabemono (hot pot) that contains a high ratio of ingredients to broth. As a hunter-gatherer society, the Ainu did not have a staple food as such, but ohaw was a central dish in their food culture. It is thought to be the roots of Hokkaidō regional dishes such as Ishikari nabe and sanpei soup. There are no specific requirements of ingredients to use for ohaw, but was generally made as described below.

A stock is created by heating animal bone or small dried fish in water.

Roughly chopped meat or fish is added to the stock and cooked. Dried meat and fish require longer cooking times. The scum that results from cooking the meats is not removed, as it was thought to have medicinal properties.

Root vegetables or those which required longer cooking times are added, followed by high fiber mountain vegetables, and finally leafy vegetables. The soup is allowed to cook further until all ingredients are soft.

The soup is flavored with animal or fish fats, a small amount of salt, and topped with ground dried kelp or dried pukusa.

Different varieties of ohaw are named by their main ingredient such as cep ohaw (fish soup), kamuy ohaw (bear soup), kam ohaw (meat soup), and kina ohaw (vegetable soup). Anemone flaccida was particularly suited for use in soups and was therefore called ohaw kina, which literally translates as “soup grass”.

Rataskep

Translated literally, rataskep means “mixed food”. Wild vegetables and beans are stewed until soft and the liquid has evaporated, at which point the mixture is mashed and seasoned with bear or fish oils and a small amount of salt. Rataskep was made as an everyday food, as well as for offerings at ceremonies, as it was considered a sacred food. There are unlimited varieties using different ingredients, below are a few examples.

Sikerpe kina rataskep

Pukusa rataskep

Cihue rataskep

Kabocha rataskep

Cipor rataskep

Nisew rataskep

A thin porridge made from boiling Japanese millet or rice. Generally, the grains are boiled alone, but occasionally gathered vegetables are added. Unlike other porridges in agricultural societies, sayo is not a staple food. Rather, Ainu would fill up on fatty soups and grilled meats then drink it like tea as a palate cleanser. For that reason, sayo was made in a small dedicated pot so as to avoid mixing oils in from other dishes. Care was also taken to avoid mixing flavors when serving by using a separate ladle specifically for serving sayo (sayo kasup), rather than the usual ladle for serving soup (kasup). As the porridge used very little grains to make, a month's supply for one person was approximately 1.8 liters. 108 liters would provide plenty for a family of five for a year.

The following are examples of sayo varieties.

Turep sayo

Irup sayo

Ento sayo

Satsirari sayo

Kikinni sayo

Cipor sayo

A type of dumplings. The name sito is derived from the Japanese shitogi which refers to dumplings or a paste made from grinding raw grains. Traditionally, sito were considered a luxury due to the time and effort necessary to produce the flour by grinding the grains with mortar and pestle. It was therefore not a usual everyday food, but one made as offerings for sacred days such as the Bear Festival (iomante) and Ancestors’ Festival (icarup).

Usual ingredients were proso millet (mankul), foxtail millet (munchiro), and rice (siamam), though sito made with proso millet were considered the correct form. Over the years, other ingredients were added such as pumpkin (kabocha), and potato (imo). Similar to the Japanese kusamochi, the Ainu also made sito which mixed in Japanese mugwort (noya). Their flavor was enjoyed as reminiscent of spring.

Making sito

Polished grains are left to soak overnight, then drained.

The grains are placed in a large mortar and multiple people sing while pounding the grain with large pestles (iutaupopo).

The resulting flour is kneaded with hot water and formed into round flat dumplings approximately 7 or 8 centimeters in diameter and 1 centimeter thick.

The dumplings are boiled in a large pot, taking care not to allow them to burn on the bottom of the pot.

Sito that were meant to be offerings were placed as is in ceremonial lacquerware boxes (sintoko), wooden bowls (patci), on small trays (otcike), or skewered with cornus controversa sticks and presented to the gods. When meant to be eaten by people, the sito were served with partially crushed salmon roe or a sauce made from mixing oils with dried and crushed kelp.

Sito has a long history. Dumplings made from foxtail millet have been found in archeological Satsumon remains discovered in Atsuma. Traditional Ainu cuisine did not use steamed rice to make dumplings, as the Japanese did with mochi. The Ainu first came in contact with Japanese style mochi after the Edo period when more ethnic Japanese moved to live in the same areas as the Ainu under the land contract system.

Preserved foods

Dried meat and fish

The Ainu word for dried meat is satkam while dried fish is called satcep, nikeruy, or atat.

Salmon was fished in quantities greater than what could be eaten immediately, especially in fall, and processed into preserved food so it could last up to six months. The first step in the process was to remove the head and internal organs of the fish, which was then dried on a rack outside before being taken inside and smoked in the hearth. Trout (icaniw) and Japanese char (tuksis) caught in summer were dried over a fire to prevent flies damaging the fish. These dried fish were eaten as is by pulling off the meat, or by rehydrating in water and eating as ingredients in soup or as a final cooked item itself. Salmon that was dried after the fish had laid eggs lost much of its flavor, so it was often stewed with added fish fats to improve the taste.

Milt (up) and salmon roe (cipor) obtained when slicing open the fish were also dried and preserved then later used in sayo or to make stock for ohaw.

While it was common to eat everything of a bear raw while it was still fresh, including its meat and its internal organs, the Ainu would also preserve some of the meat for consumption during the off season. Meat from deer (yuk) and brown bears (kimun kamuy) was cut into narrow strips and simmered in a large pot. Once the juices were removed, the meat was hung over the fire inside to dry and smoke. This satkam would be eaten as is, or boiled again to create a soup.

Cardiocrinum cordatum starch

The starch obtained from Cardiocrinum cordatum bulbs (turep) held a more important position in the Ainu diet than grains.

The Ainu word for the fourth month of the lunar calendar is mo kiwtacup, which translates to “soon to be time to dig up turep month”, while the fifth month is si kiwtacup, or “digging up turep month”. This was the time when Ainu women would take their sacks (saranip) and digging sticks (itani) and head into the mountains to gather the bulbs. The gathered bulbs were processed into starch using the following method.

Remove leaves and roots from the bulb, peel the scales off one by one, and rinse in water.

Place the scales in a large bucket. Grind until a sticky paste is formed using the head of a hatchet as a pestle. Pour large quantities of water into the bucket and let sit for about two days.

Fine fibers and skins will float to the surface of the water forming a scum after a few days have passed and the starch will settle to the bottom. The fibrous scum is removed and set aside for use in on turep. The starch collected on the bottom of the bucket is divided into two types of starch: the semi-liquid secondary starch and the powdered primary starch.

These two types of starch were dried and preserved, but before that, they were also used to make fresh foods. The primary starch was mixed with water and poured into the hollow of plant stems from the Japanese knotweed (kuttar) or Parasenecio hastatus (wakkakutu) and placed into the ashes of a fire to cook into a thin noodle-like shape. The secondary starch was formed into round dumplings, wrapped in the leaves of the Japanese butterbur (korkoni) or magnolia (pusni), then placed in the ashes of a fire to bake. They were then eaten with salmon roe or animal fats.

The secondary starch was the one which was used on a daily basis once it had been dried for preservation. It was often formed into dumplings and added to sayo. The primary starch was rarely eaten, instead being reserved for gifts or used as medicine.

It was considered taboo to speak of alcohol or love affairs while working on any part of the starch making process. It was said such discussions would agitate the starch and it would fail to settle properly.

On turep

On turep translates as “fermented turep”. It is a preserved food fermented from the fiber and skin byproduct of the turep starch extraction process. It was made using the following method.

A sieve (icari) is used to gather the fiber and skins that float in or on the water after the turep bulbs have been crushed and soaked in water.

The water is thoroughly wrung from the fiber, then it is wrapped in leaves from the Japanese butterbur (korkoni) or Parasenecio hastatus (wakkakutu) and left to ferment for three to ten days. This fermenting process is called “on”.

The fermented product is ground thoroughly with a mortar and pestle. Once pounded, it is kneaded, formed into donut-like shapes, and dried.

A cord is passed through the center and the on turep is stored hung from a rack above the hearth.

The on turep was eaten by smashing and rehydrating it to form into dumplings and placed in sayo.

Pocche-imo

Pocche-imo is a preserved potato food also known as penekoshoi-imo or munini-imo. The process involved uses the extreme cold of Hokkaidō in a fashion similar to the production of chuño in South America.

Once potatoes were harvested in the fall, the poorly shaped and small potatoes were left outside. The winter's cold would soon come and freeze the potatoes, which would thaw again in spring. This process of freezing and thawing would break down the structure of the potatoes, turning them soft. Once in that state, the potatoes were soaked in water and thawed completely. The starch that settled to the bottom of the water was collected, formed into spheres, and arranged in a warm place to ferment. This resulted in a fine textured potato flour. The flour was formed into cakes and baked in the ashes of the fire, then bear fat or cipor (salmon roe) was added and together placed in sayo to eat. In modern times with the influence of ethnic Japanese culture, it became more common to flavor pocche-imo with artificial flavorings such as saccharin then deep fry them. The fried product is then eaten with nori or a mixture of sugar and soy sauce.

Commodities

Alcohol

Words for alcohol in the Ainu language include sake, tonoto, and askur. The word sake is a loanword from Japanese, and tonoto is also a word developed under Japanese influence as it originally referred to food or beverages given by an influential Japanese person, who was called a ton. Ainu alcohol is an undistilled alcohol made from Japanese millet that is similar in appearance and flavor to homebrewed sake.

All alcohol was produced by the women. Virtuous, respected katkemat (ladies/wives) from nearby were considered suitable for leading the task. Conversely, young women, particularly those during menokotasum (menstruation, literally translated as “women sickness”) were considered impure and did not assist.

The ingredients considered best for making alcohol were Japanese millet (piyapa) or proso millet (menkul). First, the grains were heated in a large pot with water until a porridge formed. Once cool to the touch, malt was mixed in. The Ainu either acquired malted grain from trade with the Japanese or they produced their own by boiling Japanese millet, acorns, and Cardiocrinum cordatum then sprinkling powdered bark from the Cercidiphyllum tree on the finished product. Furthermore, the Ainu word for malt, kamtaci, is the same as the old Japanese word for malted rice, kamutachi.

The alcohol was stored in a lacquered vessel (sintoko) and left to set in hot embers as a warding against evil. Using a portion of Apehuci-kamuy, the goddess of fire, like this would protect the alcohol from evil spirits, and was a prayer for the success of the alcohol making process. As an additional warding against evil spirits, a hatchet (tasiro) or an Ainu blade (emus) was placed atop the sintoko as it was left to set for ten days near the kamuy puyar, the window furthest inside the cise, which was considered sacred. Once the alcohol had fermented enough, the spent coals were returned to the hearth and the mash was strained through a sieve (icari) to remove the lees (sirari) and finish the alcohol. It was stirred using a sake ladle (sake-pisakku), ladled into a spouted bowl (etosup), then poured into bowls (itanki). When offering alcohol to the spirits, an ikupasuy, a ceremonial stick, was dipped into a bowl of sake set on a takaysara, a bowl stand. The alcohol on the ikupasuy was then spread onto the inau. It was believed that by going through the ikupasuy, one drop of alcohol in the human world would become an entire barrel of alcohol in the spirit world. The Ainu said that alcohol was something that everyone enjoyed, along with the spirits. Drinking alone was not an option.

The Ainu of the Hidaka region, such as those near Shizunai, had a legend that tsunami spirits hated lees, so they spread the lees around their homes to ward off tsunamis.

Drinks

The teas drunk by Ainu were not made with the evergreen Camellia sinensis, but from the seeds and bark of trees, or medicinal herbs native to the cool climate of Hokkaidō.

The Ainu would brew various plant materials to make tea such as Japanese bigleaf magnolia (pusni) twigs and seeds, kobushi magnolia (omawkusni) twigs and seeds, Lindera umbellata twigs (sumnuhas), bird cherry (kikinni) bark, Ledum palustre leaves (haspo), Vietnamese balm stems and leaves (ento), Libanotis coreana roots (upew), Heracleum lanatum (pittok) roots, and Angelica genuflexa (munusi) roots.Cinnamomum camphora (ciprasu) which grows along the coast was used in a similar way. In the Sakhalin region, drinks were made of boiled Ledum palustre (nuxca) stems and leaves, Rose rugosa (otaruxni), and Rubus matsumuranus (kinakaoxni) stems and leaves.

Japanese tea imported from Honshu has become widespread in modern times.

There are some trees native to Hokkaidō that contain a sweet sap. The Ainu used the sap of these trees (niwakka, literally translated as “tree water”) as a drink and flavoring for foods.

Large amounts of sap run from the trunk of the white birch (kapattatni) if it is damaged in the summer. This sap is called tatni wakka and was used as water for cooking when there was none available in the area. A drink was also made by adding chopped Symplocarpus nipponicus to the sap along with flavoring. The Sakhalin Ainu would make alcohol by placing set white birch sap into blackcurrant juice and leaving it to ferment.

The painted maple (topeni, meaning “milk tree”) is related to the sugar maple of North America. A sweet sap flows from the trunk if it is damaged. The trunks would be scored during the winter to make “sap icicles” that were eaten like popsicles. The sap was also boiled down to create a sweetener. This was then boiled with beans or water chestnuts to make a high-quality rataskep. Sap fell out of use along with the influx of sugar during the Meiji Period, but it experienced a temporary resurgence during the shortages of World War II.

Utensils and eating habits

“Meal” in Ainu is “ipe”. Traditionally, two meals were eaten per day, breakfast (kunneywa ipe) and dinner (onuman ipe), and a third meal, lunch (tokes ipe), was added during the Taisho period. A night meal (kunne ipe) was sometimes eaten during night fishing or other late activities.

Food was transferred from the cooking pot using a ladle (kasup) into a lacquerware bowl (itanki) for eating. These bowls were obtained through trade with the ethnic Japanese and were large enough to hold 400 ml worth of food. Chunks of meat or fish that were too large to fit in the bowl were placed on mats woven from reeds. Items such as fish roasted on a spit or sito were eaten by hand, but otherwise, most foods were eaten with chopsticks (pasuy) or spoons (parapasuy). Parapasuy translated literally means “wide chopstick”. Both spoons and chopsticks were carved from wood.

When guests were over for food, the head woman of the house would offer food and say “ipeyan” (please eat). The guest would express their gratitude, and, if it were a valuable meal such as bear meat, they would raise the food to their forehead in thanks before beginning. However, the family would not say anything before eating if there were no guests. Once finished, it was customary to say “hunna” to express their gratitude for the food.

Similar to the ethnic Japanese, it was considered polite to eat all food that was provided. Because of this, it was considered polite to use one's finger to wipe the remaining sauce from inside the bowl and lick it. This custom is the reason for the Ainu name for the pointer finger, “itanki kem atsukep”, literally meaning “bowl-licking finger”.

References

^ a b Ipe Taberu (PDF) (in Japanese and English). Hokkaido Ainu Culture Research Center. 2014. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2020-10-27. Retrieved 2018-09-16.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o Ainu Bunka Hozon Taisaku Kyōgikai (1970). Ainu minzokushi (in Japanese). Dai-ichi Hōki Shuppan Kabushiki Gaisha. ASIN B000J9FZ8E.

^ a b Nihon no shoku to kokoro: sono rūtsu to yukue (in Japanese). Kokugakuin University Institute for Japanese Culture and Classics. 2003. ISBN 4874492339.

^ a b c d e f 更科, 源蔵 (1968). Ainu rekishi to minzoku. 社会思想社. ASIN B000JA5YH0.

^ a b Sarashina, Genzō (1981). Ainu densetsu shū (in Japanese). Miyama Shobō. ASIN B000J6XEOO.

^ 岸上, 伸啓; 木原, 仁美; 葛野, 浩昭; 佐々木, 史郎; 手塚, 薫; 吉田, 睦 (1995). Sekai no shokubunka 20: Kyokuhoku (in Japanese). Rural Culture Association Japan. p. 93. ISBN 978-4540050060.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z aa Haginaka, Mie; Fujimura, Hisakazu; Muraki, Miyuki; Hatai, Asako; Kohara, Toshihiro (1992). Kikigaki Ainu no shokuji (in Japanese). Rural Culture Association Japan. ISBN 9784540920042.

^ a b c Segawa, Takaroi (2007). Ainu no rekishi: umi to takara no nomado (in Japanese). Kōdansha. p. 94. ISBN 978-4062584012.

^ アイヌ民族博物館. "とる". アイヌ民族博物館. Archived from the original on 28 March 2016. Retrieved 12 September 2018.

^ a b c d 林喜, 茂 (1969). Ainu no noukou. Keiyūsha. ASIN B000J9W90Q.

^ Kayano, Shigeru (2000). Ainu saijiki : Nibutani no kurashi to kokoro (Shohan ed.). Heibonsha. p. 50. ISBN 4582850545.

^ Chiri, Mashiho. Bunrui Ainugo Jiten Shokubutsuhen (in Japanese). Heibonsha. ASIN B000JB3WQ4.

Bibliography

Kayano, Shigeru (萱野茂) (1996). 萱野茂のアイヌ語辞典 (Kayano Shigeru no ainu go jiten). Sanseidō.

Batchelor, John (1905). Ainu-English-Japanese Dictionary: (including A Grammar of the Ainu Language. London: Methodist Publishing House.

Batchelor, John; Miyabe, Kingo (1893), "Ainu economic plants", Transactions of the Asiatic Society of Japan, 221: 198–240

External links

Japan portal

Food portal

Ainu Agriculture

Origins of Ainu

English site of the Ainu Museum

Official site of an Ainu restaurant in Ainu Kotan, "Poron'no" (in Japanese)

Official site of an Ainu restaurant in Ainu Kotan, "Marukibune by Moshiri" (in Japanese)

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

# Korean cuisine


Bap Bibimbap Bokkeum-bap Gukbap

Bibimbap

Bokkeum-bap

Gukbap

Juk Mieum

Guksu Naengmyeon

Naengmyeon

Jangajji

Jeotgal

Kimchi Baek-kimchi Dongchimi Kkakdugi Nabak-kimchi

Baek-kimchi

Dongchimi

Kkakdugi

Nabak-kimchi

Soups and stews

Jeongol

Jijimi

Jjigae

Banchan

Bokkeum

Buchimgae Jeon

Jokpyeon

Pyeonyuk

Gwapyeon

Jeonggwa

Kkultarae

Suksilgwa

Yakbap

Yeotgangjeong

Yugwa Gangjeong Hangwa

Gangjeong

Hangwa

Yumilgwa Mandugwa Taraegwa Yakgwa

Mandugwa

Taraegwa

Yakgwa

Baekseolgi

Bupyeon

Gyeongdan

Injeolmi

Jeolpyeon

Jeungpyeon

Mujigae-tteok

Siru-tteok

Songpyeon

Hwachae

Sikhye

Sul (alcoholic drinks)

Sujeonggwa

Doenjang

Ganjang Gukganjang Eoganjang

Gukganjang

Eoganjang

Gochujang

Cheong

Mustard sauce

Oil Perilla oil Sesame oil

Perilla oil

Sesame oil

Ssamjang

Vinegar Persimmon vinegar Rice vinegar

Persimmon vinegar

Rice vinegar

Dolsot

Ttukbaegi

Gamasot

Kimchi Field Museum

Kimchi refrigerator

List of Korean dishes

North Korean cuisine

Korean regional cuisine

Korean Chinese cuisine

Korean royal court cuisine

Korean barbecue

Korean cuisine is the set of foods and culinary styles which are associated with Korean culture. This cuisine has evolved through centuries of social and political change. Originating from ancient agricultural and nomadic traditions in Korea and southern Manchuria, Korean cuisine reflects a complex interaction of the natural environment and different cultural trends.

Korean cuisine is largely based on rice, vegetables, seafood and (at least in South Korea) meats. Dairy is largely absent from the traditional Korean diet. Traditional Korean meals are named for the number of side dishes (반찬; 飯饌; banchan) that accompany steam-cooked short-grain rice. Kimchi is served at nearly every meal. Commonly used ingredients include sesame oil, doenjang (fermented bean paste), soy sauce, salt, garlic, ginger, gochugaru (pepper flakes), gochujang (fermented red chili paste) and napa cabbage.

Ingredients and dishes vary by province. Many regional dishes have become national. Korean royal court cuisine once brought all of the unique regional specialties together for the royal family. Foods are regulated by Korean cultural etiquette.

Kimjang, which refers to the process of making kimchi, is listed on the UNESCO Intangible Heritage List.

History

Prehistoric

In the Jeulmun pottery period (approximately 8000 to 1500 BCE), hunter-gatherer societies engaged in fishing and hunting, and incipient agriculture in the later stages. Since the beginning of the Mumun pottery period (1500 BCE), agricultural traditions began to develop with new migrant groups from the Liao River basin of Manchuria. During the Mumun period, people grew millet, barley, wheat, legumes and rice, and continued to hunt and fish. Archaeological remains point to development of fermented beans during this period, and cultural contact with nomadic cultures to the north facilitated domestication of animals.

Three Kingdoms period

The Three Kingdoms period (57 BCE – 668 CE) was one of rapid cultural evolution. The kingdom of Goguryeo (37 BCE – 668 CE) was located in the northern part of the peninsula along much of modern-day Manchuria. The second kingdom, Baekje (18 BCE – 660 CE), was in the southwestern portion of the peninsula, and the third, Silla (57 BCE – 935 CE), was located at the southeastern portion of the peninsula. Each region had its own distinct set of cultural practices and foods. For example, Baekje was known for cold foods and fermented foods like kimchi. The spread of Buddhism and Confucianism through cultural exchanges with China during the fourth century CE began to change the distinct cultures of Korea.

Attributed with the earliest kimchi, the Goguryeo people were skilled at fermenting and widely consumed fermented food.

Goryeo period

During the latter Goryeo period, the Mongols invaded Goryeo in the 13th century. Some traditional foods found today in Korea have their origins during this period. The dumpling dish, mandu, grilled meat dishes, noodle dishes, and the use of seasonings such as black pepper, all have their roots in this period.

Joseon period

Agricultural innovations were significant and widespread during this period, such as the invention of the rain gauge during the 15th century. During 1429, the government began publishing books on agriculture and farming techniques, which included Nongsa chiksŏl (literally "Straight Talk on Farming"), an agricultural book compiled under King Sejong.

A series of invasions in the earlier half of the Joseon caused a dynamic shift in the culture during the second half of the period. Groups of silhak ("practical learning") scholars began to emphasize the importance of looking outside the country for innovation and technology to help improve the agricultural systems. Crops traded by Europeans from the New World began to appear, acquired through trade with China, Japan, Europe, and the Philippines; these crops included maize, sweet potatoes, chili peppers, tomatoes, peanuts, and squash. Potatoes and sweet potatoes were particularly favored as they grew in soils and on terrains that were previously unused.

Government further developed agriculture through technology and lower taxation. Complex irrigation systems built by government allowed peasant farmers to produce larger crop volumes and produce crops not only for sustenance but also as cash crops. Reduced taxation of the peasantry also furthered the expanded commerce through increasing periodic markets, usually held every five days. One thousand such markets existed in the 19th century, and were communal centers for economic trade and entertainment.

The end of the Joseon period was marked by consistent encouragement to trade with the Western world, China and Japan. In the 1860s, trade agreements pushed by the Japanese government led the Joseon dynasty to open its trade ports with the west, and to numerous treaties with the United States, Britain, France, and other Western countries.

The opening of Korea to the Western world brought further exchange of culture and food. Western missionaries introduced new ingredients and dishes to Korea. Joseon elites were introduced to these new foods by way of foreigners who attended the royal court as advisers or physicians. This period also saw the introduction of various seasonings imported from Japan via western traders and alcoholic drinks from China.

Colonial period to modern period

Japan occupied the Korean peninsula from 1910 to 1945. Many of its agricultural systems were taken over by the Japanese to support Japan's food supply. Land changes resulting from the Japanese occupation included combining small farms into large-scale farms, which led to larger yields. Rice production increased during this period to support the Empire of Japan's war efforts. Many Koreans, in turn, increased the production of other grains for their own consumption.

Meals during the Japanese occupation were quite varied. Koreans usually ate two meals a day during the cold seasons, and three during the warm seasons. For the lower classes, satiety, rather than quality, was most important. Those in even lower economic levels were likely to enjoy only a single bowl of white rice each year, while the remainder of the year's meals consisted of cheaper grains, such as millet and barley. For the Korean middle and upper classes during the occupation, things were quite different. Western foods began emerging in the Korean diet, such as white bread and commercially produced staples such as precooked noodles. The Japanese occupational period ended after the defeat of Japan during World War II.

The country remained in a state of turmoil through the Korean War (1950–1953) and the Cold War, which separated the country into North Korea and South Korea. Both of these periods continued the limited food provisions for Koreans, and the stew called budae jjigae, which makes use of inexpensive meats such as sausage and Spam, originated during this period.

At this point, the history of North and South Korea sharply diverged. In the 1960s under President Park Chung Hee, industrialization began to give South Korea the economic and cultural power it holds in the global economy today. Agriculture was increased through use of commercial fertilizers and modern farming equipment. In the 1970s, food shortages began to lessen. Consumption of instant and processed foods increased, as did the overall quality of foods. Livestock and dairy production was increased during the 1970s through the increase of commercial dairies and mechanized farms. The consumption of pork and beef increased vastly in the 1970s. Per-capita consumption of meat was 3.6 kg in 1961 and 11 kg by 1979. The result of this increased meat consumption brought about the rise of bulgogi restaurants, which gave the middle class of South Korea the ability to enjoy meat regularly. Meat eating continued to rise, reaching 40 kg in 1997, with fish consumption at 49.5 kg in 1998. Rice consumption continually decreased through these years, from 128 kg consumed per person in 1985 to 106 kg in 1995 and 83 kg in 2003. The decrease in rice consumption has been accompanied by an increase in the consumption of bread and noodles. In 2009, the South Korean government launched a $77-million culinary diplomacy program called "Korean Cuisine to the World" to promote its cuisine and subsequently pivoted into the markets in the United States and Muslim countries.

Grains

Grains have been one of the most important staples of the Korean diet. Early myths of the foundations of various kingdoms in Korea center on grains. One foundation myth relates to Jumong, who received barley seeds from two doves sent by his mother after establishing the kingdom of Goguryeo. Yet another myth speaks of the three founding deities of Jeju Island, who were to be wed to the three princesses of Tamna; the deities brought seeds of five grains which were the first seeds planted, which in turn became the first instance of farming.

During the pre-modern era, grains such as barley and millet were the main staples. They were supplemented by wheat, sorghum, and buckwheat. Rice is not an indigenous crop to Korea and millet was likely the preferred grain before rice was cultivated. Rice became the grain of choice during the Three Kingdoms period, particularly in the Silla and Baekje Kingdoms in the southern regions of the peninsula. Rice was such an important commodity in Silla that it was used to pay taxes. The Sino-Korean word for "tax" is a compound character that uses the character for the rice plant. The preference for rice escalated into the Joseon period, when new methods of cultivation and new varieties emerged that would help increase production.

As rice was prohibitively expensive when it first came to Korea, the grain was likely mixed with other grains to "stretch" the rice; this is still done in dishes such as boribap (rice with barley) and kongbap (rice with beans). White rice, which is rice with the bran removed, has been the preferred form of rice since its introduction into the cuisine. The most traditional method of cooking the rice has been to cook it in an iron pot called a sot (솥) or musoe sot (무쇠솥). This method of rice cookery dates back to at least the Goryeo period, and these pots have even been found in tombs from the Silla period. The sot is still used today, much in the same manner as it was in the past centuries.

Rice is used to make a number of items, outside of the traditional bowl of plain white rice. It is commonly ground into a flour and used to make rice cakes called tteok in over two hundred varieties. It is also cooked down into a congee (juk) or gruel (mieum) and mixed with other grains, meat, or seafood. Koreans also produce a number of rice wines, both in filtered and unfiltered versions. Grains have also been used for centuries to make misu and misu-garu, drinks made from grain powder that are sometimes used as meal supplements.

Fruits

Encompassing a wide range of temperate climates, the Korean peninsula supports the growth of many cultivated and wild fruit species. Asian pears of numerous varieties, persimmons, apples, citrus, melons, berries and more are typical of summer and fall produce. Asian pears and persimmons, being Pre-Columbian era staples, are particularly well-represented in culture as gifts, ceremonies, medicine, marinades, and subjects of art and poetry.

Legumes

Legumes have been significant crops in Korean history and cuisine, according to the earliest preserved legumes found in archaeological sites in Korea. The excavation at Okbang site, Jinju, South Gyeongsang Province indicates soybeans were cultivated as a food crop circa 1000–900 BCE. They are still made into dubu (tofu), while soybean sprouts are sauteed as a vegetable (kongnamul) and whole soybeans are seasoned and served as a side dish. They are also made into soy milk, which is used as the base for the noodle dish called kongguksu. A byproduct of soy milk production is biji or kong-biji, which is served as a stew and also used to thicken stews and porridges. Soybeans may also be one of the beans in kongbap, boiled together with several types of beans and other grains, and they are also the primary ingredient in the production of fermented condiments collectively referred to as jang, such as soybean pastes, doenjang and cheonggukjang, a soy sauce called ganjang, chili pepper paste or gochujang and others.

Nokdu (Mung bean) is commonly used in Korean cuisine. Sukju namuls (Mung bean sprouts) are often served as a side dish, blanched and sautéed with sesame oil, garlic, and salt. Ground Nokdu is used to make a porridge called nokdujuk, which is eaten as a nutritional supplement and digestive aid, especially for ill patients. A popular snack, bindaetteok (mung bean pancake), is made with ground nokdu and fresh sukju namul. Starch extracted from ground nokdu is used to make transparent dangmyeon ( cellophane noodles). The dangmyeons are the main ingredients for japchae (a salad-like dish) and sundae (a blood sausage), and are a subsidiary ingredient for soups and stews. The starch can be also used to make jelly-like foods, such as nokdumuk and hwangpomuk. The muk have a bland flavor, so are served seasoned with soy sauce, sesame oil and crumbled seaweed or other seasonings such as tangpyeongchae.

Cultivation of azuki beans dates back to ancient times according to an excavation from Odong-ri, Hoeryong, North Hamgyong Province, which is assumed to be that of Mumun period (approximately 1500–300 BCE). Azuki beans are generally eaten as patbap, which is a bowl of rice mixed with the beans, or as a filling and covering for tteok (rice cake) and breads. A porridge made with azuki beans, called patjuk, is commonly eaten during the winter season. On Dongjinal, a Korean traditional holiday which falls on 22 December, Korean people eat donji patjuk, which contains saealsim (새알심), a ball made from glutinous rice flour. In old Korean tradition, patjuk is believed to have the power to drive evil spirits away.

Condiments and seasoning

Condiments are divided into fermented and nonfermented variants. Fermented condiments include ganjang, doenjang, gochujang and vinegars. Nonfermented condiments or spices include red pepper, black pepper, cordifolia, mustard, chinensis, garlic, onion, ginger, leek, and scallion (spring onion).

Gochujang

Gochujang can be found in many writings. Some of the writings are the Mangi Yoram [ko], The Three States, the Nonggawolryeongga, the Gijaejapgi, and the Hyangyak-jipsongbang [ko]. The Hyangyak-jipseongbang, which dates back to around 1433 during the Chosun dynasty, is one of the oldest writings mentioning gochujang.

Gochujang is a fermented bean paste made with red pepper powder, fermented soybean powder (Meju) and rice flour. It typically can be added to most dishes. Gochujang can be used as a seasoning and sometimes as a dipping sauce. The taste is described as savory, peppery, salty, spicy and slightly sweet.

Many variations come from jang, fermented bean paste. Some variations can include doenjang (soybean and brine), kanjang (soybeans, water, and salt), chogochujang (gochujang and vinegar), and jeotgal (mixture of other jangs and seafoods).

Vegetables such as cucumbers, carrots, and cabbage use gochujang as a dip. Gochujang is a common seasoning for foods such as Korean barbecue including pork and beef. One popular snack food that is very commonly eaten with gochujang is bibimbap. Bibimbap includes rice, spinach, radish, bean sprouts. Sometimes beef is added to bibimbap. Another popular dish including gochujang is tteokbokki.

Gochujang was believed to revitalize people who were sick with colds or exhaustion during the Gio period. There have been some studies that show that red peppers fight obesity and diabetes. Gochujang is also added to many foods so that there can be additional nutritional value with each meal.

In antiquity, most meat in Korea was likely obtained through hunting and fishing. Ancient records indicate rearing of livestock began on a small scale during the Three Kingdoms period. Meat was consumed roasted or in soups or stews during this period. Those who lived closer to the oceans were able to complement their diet with more fish, while those who lived in the interior had a diet containing more meat.

Beef is the most prized of all, with cattle holding an important cultural role in the Korean home. Beef is prepared in numerous ways today, including roasting, grilling (gui) or boiling in soups. Beef can also be dried into yukpo, a type of po, as with seafood, called eopo.

The cattle were valuable draught animals, often seen as equal to human servants, or in some cases, members of the family. Cattle were also given their own holiday during the first "cow" day of the lunar New Year. The importance of cattle does not suggest Koreans ate an abundance of beef, however, as the cattle were valued as beasts of burden and slaughtering one would create dire issues in farming the land. Pork and seafood were consumed more regularly for this reason. The Buddhist ruling class of the Goryeo period forbade the consumption of beef. The Mongols dispensed with the ban of beef during the 13th century, and they promoted the production of beef cattle. This increased production continued into the Joseon period, when the government encouraged both increased quantities and quality of beef. Only in the latter part of the 20th century has beef become regular table fare.

Chicken has played an important role as a protein in Korean history, evidenced by a number of myths. One myth tells of the birth of Kim Alji, founder of the Kim family of Gyeongju being announced by the cry of a white chicken. As the birth of a clan's founder is always announced by an animal with preternatural qualities, this myth speaks to the importance of chicken in Korean culture. Chicken is often served roasted or braised with vegetables or in soups. All parts of the chicken are used in Korean cuisine, including the gizzard, liver, and feet. Young chickens are braised with ginseng and other ingredients in medicinal soups eaten during the summer months to combat heat called samgyetang. The feet of the chicken, called dakbal (닭발), are often roasted and covered with hot and spicy gochujang-based sauce and served as an anju, or side dish, to accompany alcoholic beverages, especially soju.

Pork has also been another important land-based protein for Korea. Records indicate pork has been a part of the Korean diet back to antiquity, similar to beef.

A number of foods have been avoided while eating pork, including Chinese bellflower (doraji, 도라지) and lotus root (yeonn ppuri, 연뿌리), as the combinations have been thought to cause diarrhea. All parts of the pig are used in Korean cuisine, including the head, intestines, liver, kidney and other internal organs. Koreans utilize these parts in a variety of cooking methods including steaming, stewing, boiling and smoking. Koreans especially like to eat grilled pork belly, which is called samgyeopsal.

Fish and shellfish have been a major part of Korean cuisine because of the oceans bordering the peninsula. Evidence from the 12th century illustrates commoners consumed a diet mostly of fish and shellfish, such as shrimp, clams, oysters, abalone, and loach, while sheep and hogs were reserved for the upper class.

Both fresh and saltwater fish are popular, and are served raw, grilled, broiled, dried or served in soups and stews. Common grilled fish include mackerel, hairtail, croaker and Pacific herring. Smaller fish, shrimp, squid, mollusks and countless other seafood can be salted and fermented as jeotgal. Fish can also be grilled either whole or in fillets as banchan. Fish is often dried naturally to prolong storing periods and enable shipping over long distances. Fish commonly dried include yellow corvina, anchovies (myeolchi) and croaker. Dried anchovies, along with kelp, form the basis of common soup stocks.

Shellfish is widely eaten in all different types of preparation. They can be used to prepare broth, eaten raw with chogochujang, which is a mixture of gochujang and vinegar, or used as a popular ingredient in countless dishes. Raw oysters and other seafood can be used in making kimchi to improve and vary the flavor. Salted baby shrimp are used as a seasoning agent, known as saeujeot, for the preparation of some types of kimchi. Large shrimp are often grilled as daeha gui (대하구이) or dried, mixed with vegetables and served with rice. Mollusks eaten in Korean cuisine include octopus, cuttlefish, and squid.

Vegetables

Korean cuisine uses a wide variety of vegetables, which are often served uncooked, either in salads or pickles, as well as cooked in various stews, stir-fried dishes, and other hot dishes. Commonly used vegetables include Korean radish, napa cabbage, cucumber, potato, sweet potato, spinach, bean sprouts, scallions, garlic, chili peppers, seaweed, zucchini, mushrooms, lotus root. Several types of wild greens, known collectively as chwinamul (such as Aster scaber), are a popular dish, and other wild vegetables such as bracken fern shoots (gosari) or Korean bellflower root (doraji) are also harvested and eaten in season. Traditional medicinal herbs in Korean cuisine, such as ginseng, lingzhi mushroom, wolfberry, Codonopsis pilosula, and Angelica sinensis, are often used as ingredients in cooking, as in samgyetang.

Medicinal foods

Medicinal food (boyangshik) is a wide variety of specialty foods prepared and eaten for their purported medicinal purposes, especially during the hottest 30-day period in the lunar calendar, called sambok. Hot foods consumed are believed to restore ki, as well as sexual and physical stamina lost in the summer heat. Commonly eaten boyangshik include ginseng, chicken, black goat, abalone, eel, carp, beef bone soups, pig kidneys.

Samgyetang is a chicken ginseng soup traditionally consumed during Boknal (복날) days: the hottest days of summer. It is a Korean custom to eat hot food in hot weather called Iyeolchiyeol (이열치열), which means "controlling heat with heat". Consequently, Samgyetang is Koreans' favorite energizing food and it is common to have it on sambok (삼복) days—Chobok (초복), Jungbok (중복) and Malbok (말복)—which are believed to be the hottest days in Korea.

Dishes

Korean foods can be largely categorized into groups of "main staple foods" (주식), "subsidiary dishes" (부식), and "dessert" (후식). The main dishes are made from grains such as bap (a bowl of rice), juk (porridge), and guksu (noodles).

Many Korean banchan rely on fermentation for flavor and preservation, resulting in a tangy, salty, and spicy taste. Certain regions are especially associated with some dishes (for example, the city of Jeonju with bibimbap) either as a place of origin or for a famous regional variety. Restaurants will often use these famous names on their signs or menus (e.g. "Suwon galbi").

Soups and stews

Soups are a common part of any Korean meal. Unlike other cultures, in Korean culture, soup is served as part of the main course rather than at the beginning or the end of the meal, as an accompaniment to rice along with other banchan. Soups known as guk are often made with meats, shellfish and vegetables. Soups can be made into more formal soups known as tang, often served as the main dish of the meal. Jjigae are a thicker, heavier seasoned soups or stews.

Some popular types of soups are:

Malgeunguk (맑은국), are flavoured with ganjang. Small amounts of long boiled meat may be added to the soup, or seafood both fresh and dried may be added, or vegetables may be the main component for the clear soup.

Doenjang-guk are seasoned with doenjang. Common ingredients for tojang guk include seafood such as clams, dried anchovies, and shrimp. For a spicier soup, gochujang is added.

Tteok-guk is a rice cake soup commonly made with sliced rice cakes and beef broth. White rice cake was called Baekbyeong (백병-白餠) or Geomo (거모-擧摸). Tteok-guk is made with thinly sliced garae-tteok, are long, cylindrical shaped rice cakes made with rice flour. Tteok-guk is boiled in chicken broth, but was originally boiled in pheasant meat soup. It says, "hunting pheasant is not easy, and since they breed chickens, they use chicken instead of pheasant, and if there's not chicken they even used beef"(꿩 대신 닭). In North Korea, there is a variation of this recipe called joraengi tteokguk where rice cakes are made in the shape of balls. it is eaten on New Year's Day because Koreans believe that if you eat a bowl of tteok-guk on the first of the lunar year, you get one year older. There is the belief that rice cakes in oval shape bring fortune since they resemble old Korean coins known as yeopjeon (엽전).

Gomguk or gomtang (곰탕), and they are made from boiling beef bones or cartilage. Originating as a peasant dish, all parts of beef are used, including tail, leg and rib bones with or without meat attached; these are boiled in water to extract fat, marrow, and gelatin to create a rich soup. Some versions of this soup may also use the beef head and intestines. The only seasoning generally used in the soup is salt.

Naengguk, which are cold soups generally eaten during the summer months to cool the diner. A light hand is usually used in the seasoning of these soups usually using ganjang and sesame oil.

Shin-son-ro (or koo-ja tang), the name of it came from its special cook pot with chimney for burning charcoal. The meaning is a hearth or furnace or a pot for fire or incense burning that always contains nineteen fillings. The nineteen fillings were including beef, fish, eggs, carrot, mushrooms, and onion.

Stews are referred to as jjigae, and are often a shared side dish. Jjigae is often both cooked and served in the glazed earthenware pot (ttukbaegi) in which it is cooked. The most common version of this stew is doenjang jjigae, which is a stew of soybean paste, with many variations; common ingredients include vegetables, saltwater or freshwater fish, and tofu. The stew often changes with the seasons and which ingredients are available. Other common varieties of jjigae contain kimchi (kimchi jjigae) or tofu (sundubu jjigae).

Miyeok-guk. This soup is made of dried seaweed according to 조선요리제법, it says it is usually made by frying 미역 with beef pouring water and making the soup. Adding mussel can make it taste better. Also in coastal areas they use fish instead of beef too. It is usually consumed on Koreans birthday, specifically on samchil day (삼칠일: a resting period after giving birth to the newborn); baek-il (백일: the 100th day after a baby is born); doljanchi (돌잔치: the baby's first birthday). The Korean tradition of mothers eating seaweed after birth originated in Goguryeo. The Korean word for seaweed, miyeok, originated in Goguryeo.

Kimchi

Kimchi refers to often fermented vegetable dishes, usually made with napa cabbage, Korean radish, or sometimes cucumber. There are 4 types of raw materials which are major ones: spices, seasonings, and other additional materials. Red and black pepper, cinnamon, garlic, ginger, onion, and mustard are the example of spices. There are endless varieties with regional variations, and it is served as a side dish or cooked into soups and rice dishes. In the late 15th century, it depicted Korean's custom that Korean ancestors buried kimchi jars in the ground for storage for the entire winter season, as fermented foods can keep for several years. These were stored in traditional Korean mud pots known as jangdokdae, although with the advent of refrigerators, special kimchi freezers and commercially produced kimchi, this practice has become less common. Kimchi is a vegetable-based food which includes low calorie, low fat, and no cholesterol. Also, it is a rich source of various vitamins and minerals. It contains vitamins such as vitamin A, vitamin B, vitamin C, and vitamin K and minerals which are calcium, iron, phosphorus, and selenium. The same lactobacilli bacteria found in yogurt and other fermented dairy products are also found in kimchi. In 2021, Koreans collectively consumed 1,965,000 tons of Kimchi, with average Korean consuming 88.3 grams of Kimchi daily.

Noodles

Noodles or noodle dishes in Korean cuisine are collectively referred to as guksu in native Korean or myeon in hanja. While noodles were eaten in Korea from ancient times, productions of wheat was less than other crops, so wheat noodles did not become a daily food until 1945. Wheat noodles (milguksu) were specialty foods for birthdays, weddings or auspicious occasions because the long and continued shape were thought to be associated with the bliss for longevity and long-lasting marriage.

In Korean traditional noodle dishes are onmyeon or guksu jangguk (noodles with a hot clear broth), naengmyeon (cold buckwheat noodles), bibim guksu (cold noodle dish mixed with vegetables), kalguksu (knife-cut noodles), kongguksu (noodles with a cold soybean broth), japchae (cellophane noodles made from sweet potato with various vegetables) and others. In royal court, baekmyeon (literally "white noodles") consisting of buckwheat noodles and pheasant broth, was regarded as the top quality noodle dish. Naengmyeon with a cold soup mixed with dongchimi (watery radish kimchi) and beef brisket broth was eaten in court during summer.

Jajangmyeon, a staple Koreanized Chinese noodle dish, is extremely popular in Korea as fast, take-out food. It is made with a black bean sauce usually fried with diced pork or seafood and a variety of vegetables, including zucchini and potatoes. It is popularly ordered and delivered, like Chinese take-out food in other parts of the world.

Ramyeon refers to Korean instant noodles similar to ramen.

Japchae is a dish made by inserting in boiling water roasted vegetables, mushrooms and meat, each of them roasted. This is one of the most popular dishes in Korean tradition enjoyed on special occasion like weddings, holidays and birthday. There are two types of Japchae, one that includes glass noodles and another without noodles. According to the Korean cookbook Diminbang 음식디미방 (around 1670), there is only the recipe without glass noodles. The original recipe without glass noodles is made by boiling vegetables such as cucumbers, pine mushrooms, bean sprouts, bellflowers green onion, then they are sprinkled with ginger, pepper, sesame oil, and flour. The sauce is made by boiling minced pink meat and soybean paste that is lightly filtered with sesame oil and flour. To match the name more than 20 ingredients were used. In Gyongon Yoram [규곤요람閨壼要覽 (1896)] is also recorded japchae seasoned with mustard sauce without glass noodles. However, since the 1930s, appears the japchae recipe with glass noodles alongside the original recipe. Also, during the Joseon dynasty [조선요리법朝鮮料理法] the recipe of japchae, with and without glass noodles, was added to the cookbook. Also, there is also a variant of japchae with meat, or one with abalone or other seafood in 1930s.It is a local food that shows the traditional recipe. In the Jinju region, Jamung-sam, Yokimun, is a local dish with soy sauce and sesame oil, and the seafood, such as octopus, skates, and mixed several vegetables stained in oil. Because it uses various ingredients, it has high calorie, protein, fat, vitamin, mineral, and sufficient nutritional. It is the first item to choose when you want a feast table.

Banchan

Banchan is a term referring collectively to side dishes in Korean cuisine. Soups and stews are not considered banchan.

Gui are grilled dishes, which most commonly have meat or fish as their primary ingredient, but may in some cases also comprise grilled vegetables or other vegetable ingredients. At traditional restaurants, meats are cooked at the center of the table over a charcoal grill, surrounded by various banchan and individual rice bowls. The cooked meat is then cut into small pieces and wrapped with fresh lettuce leaves, with rice, thinly sliced garlic, ssamjang (a mixture of gochujang and dwenjang), and other seasonings. The suffix gui is often omitted in the names of meat-based gui such as galbi, the name of which was originally galbi gui.

Jjim and seon (steamed dishes) are generic terms referring to steamed or boiled dishes in Korean cuisine. However, the former is made with meat or seafood-based ingredients marinated in gochujang or ganjang while seon is made with vegetable stuffed with fillings.

Hoe (raw dishes): although the term originally referred to any kind of raw dish, it is generally used to refer to saengseonhweh (생선회, raw fish dishes). It is dipped in gochujang, or soy sauce with wasabi, and served with lettuce or perilla leaves.

Jeon (or buchimgae) is a Korean savory pancake made from various ingredients. Chopped kimchi or seafood is mixed into a wheat flour-based batter, and then pan fried. This dish is typically dipped in a mixture of soy sauce, vinegar, and red pepper powder. It can be served as an appetizer, side dish (banchan) or accompanied by alcohol (anju).

There are some sweet varieties called Hwajeon (화전) which means flower pancakes.

Cooking oils such as soy and corn are used today, though technology required for producing these oils was not available during the Joseon dynasty.

Namul may refer to either saengchae (생채, literally "fresh vegetables") or sukchae (숙채, literally "heated vegetables"), although the term generally indicates the latter. Saengchae is mostly seasoned with vinegar, chili pepper powder and salt to give a tangy and refreshing taste. On the other hand, sukchae (숙채) is blanched and seasoned with soy sauce, sesame oil, chopped garlic, or sometimes chili pepper powder.

Anju (side dishes accompanying alcoholic beverages)

Anju is a general term for a Korean side dish consumed with alcohol. It matches well with Korean traditional alcohol such as Soju or Makgeolli and helps people to enjoy their drinking more. Some examples of anju include steamed squid with gochujang, assorted fruit, dubu kimchi (tofu with kimchi), peanuts, odeng/ohmuk, sora (소라) (a kind of shellfish popular in street food tents), and nakji (small octopus) and Jokbal (pig's leg served with salted shrimp sauce). Samgyupsal (pork belly) is also considered anju with Soju. Most Korean foods can be considered anju, as the food consumed alongside the alcohol depends on the diner's taste and preferences.

Holiday food

Songpyeon

Songpyeon is a Korean dish made of rice powder mostly eaten during Chuseok to express gratitude towards ancestors. Songpyeon recordings appear from the 17th century. It is said in 『Yorok 要 錄』, "Make rice cakes with white rice flour, steam them with pine and pine needles and wash them off with water." At the beginning of Songpyeon, rice cakes were made simply with white rice powder, pine needles were steamed and then washed in water. It is said that "red beans, pine nuts, walnuts, ginger and cinnamon" were added in the "Buyin Pilji 婦人 必 知". In 『Korean Rice Cakes, Hangwa, Eumcheongryu』, "In mountainous regions such as Gangwon-do and Chungcheong-do, potato songpyeon, acorn songpyeon and songgisongpyeon have been prepared and eaten. In the coastal areas of Hamgyeong-do, Pyeongan-do and Gyeonggi-do, shellfish songpyeon as produced and eaten, and in the southern regions of Jeolla-do and Gyeongsang-do, songpyeon with moss leaves was produced and eaten."[citation needed]

Ogok-bap

Ogok-bap means five rice dish, which consists of rice mixed with glutinous rice, cornstarch, red bean, perilla, and soybean. By consuming grains with the energy of blue, red, yellow, white, and black, Koreans pray for good health as well as a good year for our body with the energy of the five elements, and to chase away bad luck and happiness and well-being.[citation needed]

Beverages

Non-alcoholic beverages

All Korean traditional nonalcoholic beverages are referred to as eumcheong or eumcheongnyu (음청류 飮淸類) which literally means "clear beverages". According to historical documents regarding Korean cuisine, 193 items of eumcheongnyu are recorded. Eumcheongnyu can be divided into the following categories: tea, hwachae (fruit punch), sikhye (sweet rice drink), sujeonggwa (persimmon punch), tang (탕, boiled water), jang (장, fermented grain juice with a sour taste), suksu (숙수, beverage made of herbs), galsu (갈수, drink made of fruit extract, and Oriental medicine), honeyed water, juice and milk by their ingredient materials and preparation methods. Among the varieties, tea, hwachae, sikhye, and sujeonggwa are still widely favored and consumed; however, the others almost disappeared by the end of the 20th century.

In Korean cuisine, tea, or cha, refers to various types of herbal tea that can be served hot or cold. Not necessarily related to the leaves, leaf buds, and internodes of the Camellia sinensis plant, they are made from diverse substances, including fruits (e.g. yuja-cha), flowers (e.g. gukhwa-cha), leaves, roots, and grains (e.g. bori-cha, hyeonmi-cha) or herbs and substances used in traditional Korean medicine, such as ginseng (e.g. insam-cha) and ginger (e.g. saenggang-cha).

Alcoholic beverages

While soju is the best known liquor, there are well over 100 different alcoholic beverages, such as beers, rice and fruit wines, and liquors produced in South Korea as well as a sweet rice drink. The top-selling domestic beers (maekju in Korean) are lagers, which differ from Western beers in that they are brewed from rice, rather than barley. Consequently, Korean beers are lighter, sweeter and have less head than their Western counterparts. The South Korean beer market is dominated by the two major breweries: Hite and OB. Taedonggang is a North Korean beer produced at a brewery based in Pyongyang since 2002. Microbrewery beers and bars are growing in popularity after 2002.

Soju is a clear spirit which was originally made from grain, especially rice, and is now also made from sweet potatoes or barley. Soju made from grain is considered superior (as is also the case with grain vs. potato vodka). Soju is around 22% ABV, and is a favorite beverage of hard-up college students, hard-drinking businessmen, and blue-collar workers.

Yakju is a refined pure liquor fermented from rice, with the best known being cheongju. Takju is a thick unrefined liquor made with grains, with the best known being makgeolli, a white, milky rice wine traditionally drunk by farmers.

In addition to the rice wine, various fruit wines and herbal wines exist in Korean cuisine. Acacia, maesil plum, Chinese quince, cherry, pine cone, and pomegranate are most popular. Majuang wine (a blended wine of Korean grapes with French or American wines) and ginseng-based wines are also available.

Sweets

Traditional rice cakes, tteok and Korean confectionery hangwa are eaten as treats during holidays and festivals. Tteok refers to all kinds of rice cakes made from either pounded rice (메떡, metteok), pounded glutinous rice (찰떡, chaltteok), or glutinous rice left whole, without pounding. It is served either filled or covered with sweetened mung bean paste, red bean paste, mashed red beans, raisins, a sweetened filling made with sesame seeds, sweet pumpkin, beans, jujubes, pine nuts or honey). Tteok is usually served as dessert or as a snack. Among varieties, songpyeon is a chewy stuffed tteok served at Chuseok. Honey or another soft sweet material such as sweetened sesame or black beans are used as fillings. Pine needles can be used for imparting flavor during the steaming process. Yaksik is a sweet rice cake made with glutinous rice, chestnuts, pine nuts, jujubes, and other ingredients, while chapssaltteok is a tteok filled with sweet bean paste.

On the other hand, hangwa is a general term referring to all types of Korean traditional confectionery. The ingredients of hahngwa mainly consist of grain flour, honey, yeot, and sugar, or of fruit and edible roots. Hangwa is largely divided into yumilgwa (fried confectionery), suksilgwa, jeonggwa, gwapyeon, dasik (tea food) and yeot. Yumilgwa is made by stir frying or frying pieces of dough, such as maejakgwa and yakgwa. Maejakgwa is a ring-shaped confection made of wheat flour, vegetable oil, cinnamon, ginger juice, jocheong, and pine nuts, while yakgwa, literally "medicinal confectionery", is a flower-shaped biscuit made of honey, sesame oil and wheat flour.

Suksilgwa is made by boiling fruits, ginger, or nuts in water, and then forming the mix into the original fruit's shape, or other shapes. Gwapyeon is a jelly-like confection made by boiling sour fruits, starch, and sugar. Dasik, literally "eatery for tea", is made by kneading rice flour, honey, and various types of flour from nuts, herbs, sesame, or jujubes. Jeonggwa, or jeongwa, is made by boiling fruits, plant roots and seeds in honey, mullyeot (물엿, liquid candy) or sugar. It is similar to marmalade or jam/jelly. Yeot is a Korean traditional candy in liquid or solid form made from steamed rice, glutinous rice, glutinous kaoliang, corn, sweet potatoes or mixed grains. The steamed ingredients are lightly fermented and boiled in a large pot called sot (솥) for a long time.

Yugwa and Yakgwa. They are traditional desserts enjoyed during Chuseok, marriage or the sixtieth birthday.

Regional and variant cuisines

Korean regional cuisines (향토음식; hyangtoeumsik) are characterized by local specialties and distinctive styles within Korean cuisine. The divisions reflected historical boundaries of the provinces where these food and culinary traditions were preserved until modern times.

Although Korea has been divided into two nation-states since 1948 (North Korea and South Korea), it was once divided into eight provinces (paldo) according to the Joseon administrative districts. The northern region consisted of Hamgyeong Province, Pyeongan Province and Hwanghae Province. The central region comprised Gyeonggi Province, Chungcheong Province, and Gangwon Province. Gyeongsang Province and Jeolla Province made up the southern region.

Until the late 19th century, transportation networks were not well developed, and each provincial region preserved its own characteristic tastes and cooking methods. Geographic differences are also reflected by the local specialty foodstuffs depending on the climate and types of agriculture, as well as the natural foods available. With the modern development of transportation and the introduction of foreign foods, Korean regional cuisines have tended to overlap and integrate. However, many unique traditional dishes in Korean regional cuisine have been handed down through the generations.

Buddhist cuisine

Korean temple cuisine originated in Buddhist temples of Korea. Since Buddhism was introduced into Korea, Buddhist traditions have strongly influenced Korean cuisine, as well. During the Silla period (57 BCE – 935 CE), chalbap (찰밥, a bowl of cooked glutinous rice) yakgwa (a fried dessert) and yumilgwa (a fried and puffed rice snack) were served for Buddhist altars and have been developed into types of hangwa, Korean traditional confectionery. During the Goryeo period, sangchu ssam (wraps made with lettuce), yaksik, and yakgwa were developed, and since spread to China and other countries. Since the Joseon dynasty, Buddhist cuisine has been established in Korea according to regions and temples.

On the other hand, royal court cuisine is closely related to Korean temple cuisine. In the past, when the royal court maids, sanggung, who were assigned to Suragan (수라간; 水剌間; the name of the royal kitchen), where they prepared the king's meals, became old, they had to leave the royal palace. Therefore, many of them entered Buddhist temples to become nuns. As a result, culinary techniques and recipes of the royal cuisine were integrated into Buddhist cuisine.

Vegetarian cuisine

Vegetarian cookery in Korea may be linked to the Buddhist traditions that influenced Korean culture from the Goryeo dynasty onwards. There are hundreds of vegetarian restaurants in Korea, although historically they have been local restaurants that are unknown to tourists. Most have buffets, with cold food, and vegetarian kimchi and tofu being the main features. Bibimbap is a common vegan dish. Menus change with seasons. Wine with the alcohol removed and fine teas are also served. The Korean tea ceremony is suitable for all vegetarians and vegans, and began with Buddhist influences. All food is eaten with a combination of stainless steel oval chopsticks and a long-handled shallow spoon called together sujeo.

Ceremonial food

Food is an important part of traditions of Korean family ceremonies, which are mainly based on the Confucian culture. Gwan Hon Sang Je (관혼상제; 冠婚喪祭), the four family ceremonies (coming-of-age ceremony, wedding, funeral, and ancestral rite) have been considered especially important and elaborately developed, continuing to influence Korean life to these days. Ceremonial food in Korea has developed with variation across different regions and cultures.

For example, ancestral rites called jesa are mainly held on the anniversary of an ancestor's death. Ritual food includes rice, rice cakes, meat and fish, alcohol, and fruit.

Street food

In South Korea, inexpensive food may be purchased from pojangmacha, street carts during the day, where customers may eat standing beside the cart or have their food wrapped up to take home. At night, pojangmacha (포장마차) become small tents that sell food, drinks, and alcoholic beverages.

Seasonal street foods include hotteok and bungeoppang, which are enjoyed in autumn and winter. Gyeran-ppang and hoppang are also enjoyed in winter.

Other common street foods include gimbap (김밥), tteokbokki (떡볶이), sundae, twigim, and eomuk. Dak-kkochi (닭꼬치), or skewered chicken grilled in various sauces, is also popular. Beondegi (번데기) and dalgona/ppopgi (뽑기) are two examples of original street foods many people have enjoyed since childhood.

Etiquette

Dining

Dining etiquette in Korea can be traced back to the Confucian philosophies of the Joseon period. Guidebooks, such as Sasojeol (士小節, Elementary Etiquette for Scholar Families), written in 1775 by Yi Deokmu (이덕무; 李德懋), comment on the dining etiquette for the period. Suggestions include items such as "when you see a fat cow, goat, pig, or chicken, do not immediately speak of slaughtering, cooking or eating it", "when you are having a meal with others, do not speak of smelly or dirty things, such as boils or diarrhea," "when eating a meal, neither eat so slowly as to appear to be eating against your will nor so fast as if to be taking someone else's food. Do not throw chopsticks on the table. Spoons should not touch plates, making a clashing sound", among many other recommendations which emphasized proper table etiquette.

Other than the etiquette mentioned above, blowing one's nose when having a meal is considered an inappropriate act as well.

The eldest male at the table was always served first, and was commonly served in the men's quarters by the women of the house. Women usually dined in a separate portion of the house after the men were served. The eldest men or women always ate before the younger family members. The meal was usually quiet, as conversation was discouraged during meals. In modern times, these rules have become lax, as families usually dine together now and use the time to converse. Of the remaining elements of this decorum, one is that the younger members of the table should not pick up their chopsticks or start eating before the elders of the table or guests and should not finish eating before the elders or guests finish eating.

In Korea, unlike in other East Asian cuisines such as Chinese and Japanese, the rice or soup bowl is not lifted from the table when eating from it. This is due to the fact that each diner is given a metal spoon along with the chopsticks known collectively as sujeo. The use of the spoon for eating rice and soups is expected. There are rules which reflect the decorum of sharing communal side dishes; rules include not picking through the dishes for certain items while leaving others, and the spoon used should be clean, because usually diners put their spoons in the same serving bowl on the table. Diners should also cover their mouths when using a toothpick after the meal.

The table setup is important as well, and individual place settings, moving from the diner's left should be as follows: rice bowl, spoon, then chopsticks. Hot foods are set to the right side of the table, with the cold foods to the left. Soup must remain on the right side of the diner along with stews. Vegetables remain on the left along with the rice, and kimchi is set to the back while sauces remain in the front.

Drinking

The manner of drinking alcoholic beverages while dining is significant in Korean dining etiquette. Each diner is expected to face away from the eldest male and cover their mouth when drinking alcohol. According to Hyang Eum Ju Rye (향음주례; 鄕飮酒禮), during the Choseon dynasty, it was impolite for a king and his vassal, a father and his son, or a teacher and his student to drink face to face. Also, a guest should not refuse the first drink offered by a host, and in the most formal situations, the diner should twice politely refuse a drink offered by the eldest male or a host. When the host offers for the third time, then finally the guest can accept it. If the guest refuses three times, the drink is not to be offered again.

Royal court cuisine

Collectively known as gungjung eumsik during the pre-modern era, the foods of the royal palace were reflective of the opulent nature of the past rulers of the Korean peninsula. This nature is evidenced in examples as far back as the Silla kingdom, where a man-made lake (Anapji Lake, located in Gyeongju), was created with multiple pavilions and halls for the sole purpose of opulent banquets, and a spring fed channel, Poseokjeong, was created for the singular purpose of setting wine cups afloat while they wrote poems.

Reflecting the regionalism of the kingdoms and bordering countries of the peninsula, the cuisine borrowed portions from each of these areas to exist as a showcase. The royalty would have the finest regional specialties and delicacies sent to them at the palace. Although there are records of banquets predating the Joseon period, the majority of these records mostly reflect the vast variety of foods, but do not mention the specific foods presented. The meals cooked for the royal family did not reflect the seasons, as the commoner's meals would have. Instead, their meals varied significantly day-to-day. Each of the eight provinces was represented each month in the royal palace by ingredients presented by their governors, which gave the cooks a wide assortment of ingredients to use for royal meals.

Food was considered significant in the Joseon period. Official positions were created within the Six Ministries (State Council, 육조) that were charged with all matters related to procurement and consumption of food and drink for the royal court. The Board of Personnel (Ijo, 이조) contained positions specific for attaining rice for the royal family. The Board of Rights (Yejo) were responsible for foods prepared for ancestor rites, attaining wines and other beverages, and medicinal foods. There were also hundreds of slaves and women who worked in the palace that had tasks such as making tofu, liquor, tea, and tteok (rice cakes). The women were the cooks to the royal palace and were of commoner or low-born families. These women would be split into specific skill sets or "bureau" such as the bureau of special foods (Saenggwa-bang, 생과방) or the bureau of cooking foods (Soju-bang, 소주방). These female cooks may have been assisted by male cooks from outside the palace during larger banquets when necessary.

Five meals were generally served in the royal palace each day during the Joseon period, and records suggest this pattern had existed from antiquity. Three of these meals would be full meals, while the afternoon and after dinner meals would be lighter. The first meal, mieumsang (미음상), was served at sunrise and was served only on days when the king and queen were not taking herbal medicines. The meal consisted of rice porridge (juk, 죽) made with ingredients such as abalone (jeonbokjuk), white rice (huinjuk), mushrooms (beoseotjuk), pine nuts (jatjuk), and sesame (kkaejuk). Tarakjuk, a rice and milk based royal porridge was the rare instance of dairy in Korean cuisine. The side dishes could consist of kimchi, nabak kimchi, oysters, soy sauce, and other items. The porridge was thought to give vitality to the king and queen throughout the day.

The sura (수라) were the main meals of the day. Breakfast was served at ten in the morning, and the evening meals were served between six and seven at night. The set of three tables (surasang, 수라상), were usually set with two types of rice, two types of soup, two types of stew (jjigae), one dish of jjim (meat stew), one dish of jeongol (a casserole of meat and vegetables), three types of kimchi, three types of jang (장) and twelve side dishes, called 12 cheop (12첩). The meals were set in the suragan (수라간), a room specifically used for taking meals, with the king seated to the east and the queen to the west. Each had their own set of tables and were attended by three palace servant women known as sura sanggung (수라상궁). These women would remove bowl covers and offer the foods to the king and queen after ensuring the dishes were not poisoned.

Banquets (궁중 연회 음식) were held on special occasions in the Korean Royal Palace. These included birthdays of the royal family members, marriages, and national festivals, including Daeborum, Dano, Chuseok, and Dongji. Banquet food was served on individual tables which varied according to the rank of the person. Usually banquet food consisted of ten different types of dishes. Main dishes were prepared based on the seasonal foods. Main dishes of the banquet included sinseollo, jeon, hwayang jeok, honghapcho, nengmyun and mulgimchi. A typical banquet ingredient was chogyetang (chicken broth with vinegar), which was prepared with five different chickens, five abalones, ten sea cucumbers, twenty eggs, half a bellflower root, mushrooms, two cups of black pepper, two peeled pine nuts, starch, soy sauce and vinegar. Yaksik was a favorite banquet dessert.

Health effects

Traditional Korean diet or Hansik is often associated with spiritual and physical health. While the diet of modern Korean people has become increasingly westernized and consists of numerous non-traditional foods, many believe in the healing power of Hansik. Vegetables and fermented foods are part of a healthy diet around the world, and Hansik includes many vegetable dishes and fermented foods. Three dishes, soup, Kimchi and multigrain rice make up the basic meal pattern of Hansik called three Cheopbansang. Fermented soybean paste Doenjang used in soups and fermented red chili paste Gochujang used in kimchi add health benefits to these foods.

Certain foods are typically consumed to combat the heat of the summer or the cold months, regain strength during and after an illness, or for general health. Cool noodle Naengmyeon originally from the northern part of the Korean peninsula is now enjoyed in South Korea as well as many parts of the world especially during the hot summer months. Likewise, ginseng chicken soup Samgyetang is often eaten during summer to reduce heat exhaustion and regain stamina.

Following a traditional Korean diet may lower the risk of some health issues including obesity and metabolic syndrome with a decrease in body mass index (BMI), body fat percent, and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. Fermented foods like kimchi and doenjang contain probiotics which may boost immunity and reduce the incidence or severity of allergic conditions such as asthma and atopic dermatitis. It may also lower the risk of cardiovascular and chronic metabolic diseases such as hypertension and diabetes.

Probiotics typically found in kimchi include species of genera Lactobacillus, Leuconostoc, and Weissella, and they have been linked to anti-inflammatory effects and health benefits such as improved gut health. Napa cabbage is prepared with much salt and approximately 20% of sodium intake comes from kimchi. An increased risk of gastric cancer among subjects with frequent or high consumption of kimchi was found in some case-control studies. As with other salted foods, moderate consumption may maximize health benefits of kimchi.

See also

South Korea portal

Food portal

Culture of South Korea

Delivery culture in South Korea

Korean New Year

Banchan

Hanjeongsik

North Korean cuisine

South Korean cuisine List of Korean desserts List of Korean dishes List of Korean drinks List of Korean restaurants List of oldest restaurants in South Korea

List of Korean desserts

List of Korean dishes

List of Korean drinks

List of Korean restaurants

List of oldest restaurants in South Korea

References

^ a b 역사 속 한식이야기 [Korean Food in History] (in Korean). Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism. Archived from the original on 27 November 2011. Retrieved 2 August 2010.

^ "Korean Cuisine (한국요리 韓國料理)" (in Korean). Naver / Doosan Encyclopedia. Retrieved 28 March 2009.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link)

^ Lee, Kyung Won; Cho, Wookyoun (19 June 2017). "The Consumption of Dairy Products Is Associated with Reduced Risks of Obesity and Metabolic Syndrome in Korean Women but not in Men". Nutrients. 9 (6): 630. doi:10.3390/nu9060630. ISSN 2072-6643. PMC 5490609. PMID 28629203.

^ Kimjang, making and sharing kimchi in the Republic of Korea Archived 5 February 2021 at the Wayback Machine - UNESCO

^ "Ssireum". Korean Overseas Information Service. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008.

^ "Gakjeochong (각저총 角抵塚)" (in Korean). Nate /EncyKorea. Archived from the original on 10 June 2011.

^ Pettid 2008, p. 13.

^ Park, Kun-Young; Cheigh, Hong-Sik (2003). "Kimchi". Handbook of Vegetable Preservation and Processing. CRC Press. p. 190.

^ Pettid 2008, p. 15.

^ King Sejong's Humanism, from National Assembly of the Republic of Korea

^ Pettid 2008, p. 17.

^ Pettid 2008, pp. 18–19.

^ Pettid 2008, p. 18.

^ Pettid 2008, p. 19.

^ Pettid 2008, p. 163.

^ a b Pettid 2008, pp. 19–20.

^ Pettid 2008, pp. 29, 163.

^ Pettid 2008, p. 20.

^ Pettid 2008, pp. 164–165.

^ Pettid 2008, p. 166.

^ "Eight Great Gastrodiplomacy Nations". USC Center on Public Diplomacy. 2 July 2015. Archived from the original on 6 June 2023. Retrieved 6 June 2023.

^ Herningtyas, Ratih (2019). "Korean Gastro Diplomacy: Strategy to Enhance Country Promotion Toward Moslem Countries". Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Sustainable Innovation 2019 – Humanity, Education and Social Sciences (IcoSIHESS 2019). Atlantis Press. doi:10.2991/icosihess-19.2019.42. ISBN 978-94-6252-813-0. Archived from the original on 9 September 2023. Retrieved 6 June 2023.

^ Yi Kyubo, 1-9.

^ Koryŏsa, 57, 53b-54b.

^ Pettid 2008, p. 33.

^ Yu Ji-sang (유지상). 콩사연 [The reason why kongbap changed to boribap]. JoongAng Ilbo (in Korean). Archived from the original on 26 January 2009. Retrieved 28 March 2009.

^ Pettid 2008, p. 34.

^ "All About Misugaru + Misugaru Dalgona Latte Recipe | 미수가루". 2 April 2020. Archived from the original on 29 July 2021. Retrieved 31 January 2021.

^ Lee, Seung Koo. "Current Status of Fresh Fruit Export in Korea" (PDF). un-csam.org. Seoul National University. Archived (PDF) from the original on 15 August 2023. Retrieved 15 August 2023.

^ Crawford, (2006), p. 81.

^ Crawford and Lee, (2003).

^ Crawford and Lee, (2003), p.90

^ 장 醬 [Jang] (in Korean). Nate / Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 11 June 2011.

^ 콩 [Kong] (in Korean). Nate / Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 11 June 2011.

^ 녹두죽 綠豆粥 [Nokdujuk] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia.[permanent dead link]

^ 당면 唐麵 [Dangmyeon] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia.[permanent dead link]

^ 녹두묵 [Nokdumuk] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 27 September 2008.

^ 팥 [Pat] (in Korean). Nate / Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 11 June 2011.

^ 팥 (Phaseolus angularis) (in Korean). Nate / Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 11 June 2011.

^ Shin, Dong Hwa "Korean Traditional Food: Status, Prospects, and Vision for Globalization" Chonbuk National University, 2004

^ Kim, S., Chung, K. R., Yang, H., & Kwon, D. Y. (2016) Sungchang gochujang (Korean red chili paste): The unfolding of authenticity. Journal of Ethnic Foods, 3(3), 201-208. DOI:10.1016/j.jef.2016.09.002

^ Kwon, D. Y., Chung, K. R., Yang, H., & Jang, D. (2015). Gochujang (Korean red pepper paste): A Korean ethnic sauce, its role and history. Journal of Ethnic Foods, 2(1), 29-35. DOI:10.1016/j.jef.2015.02.006

^ Pettid 2008, p. 58.

^ Pettid 2008, p. 60.

^ Pettid 2008, pp. 59–60.

^ a b c Pettid 2008, p. 62.

^ Yu Jisang (유지상)

^ Pettid 2008, p. 61.

^ a b Pettid 2008, p. 63.

^ Marks, 8.

^ Martin Robinson; Andrew Bender (April 2004). Korea. Rob Whyte. Lonely Planet Publications. p. 147. ISBN 978-1-74059-449-3. shellfish korean broth.

^ Yiu H. Hui; Sue Ghazala (1 September 2003). Handbook of Vegetable Preservation and Processing. Dee M. Graham, K. D. Murrell, Wai-Kit Nip. CRC Press. p. 191. ISBN 978-0-8247-4301-7. Archived from the original on 9 September 2023. Retrieved 26 October 2020.

^ Korea Tourism Organization

^ Pettid 2008, pp. 65–66.

^ Okwha Chung; Judy Monroe (September 2002). Cooking the Korean Way. Lerner Publishing Group. pp. 13–14. ISBN 978-0-8225-4115-8. Archived from the original on 9 September 2023. Retrieved 26 October 2020.

^ David Clive Price; Masano Kawana (15 November 2002). Food of Korea. Periplus Editions. pp. 24–25. ISBN 978-962-593-026-8. Archived from the original on 9 September 2023. Retrieved 26 October 2020.

^ Pettid 2008, pp. 84–85.

^ 초복 앞둔 유통가 '보양식' 열기 (Popularity of boyangshik ahead of coming chobok). The Korea Times (in Korean). Archived from the original on 13 June 2011. Retrieved 20 July 2010.

^ 보양식 드시고 건강하세요 (Eat boyangshik and be healthy). Kyounggikdoin Times. Retrieved 20 July 2010.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link)

^ "Spring boyangshik" (in Korean). lifehanbang.co.kr. Retrieved 20 July 2010.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link)

^ Pettid 2008, p. 56.

^ Pettid 2008, pp. 56–57.

^ Pettid 2008, p. 57.

^ "Korean food was the theme". The Daily Gleaner. 15 April 1971. Archived from the original on 6 March 2019. Retrieved 6 March 2019.

^ Pettid 2008, pp. 57–58.

^ 함혜강 (2019). [바다정보다잇다] 미역의 효능과 좋은 미역 고르는 방법 - 해양/레저. MT해양. Archived from the original on 30 September 2024. Retrieved 17 July 2024.

^ 진도 미역. 디지털진도문화대전. Academy of Korean Studies.

^ Patra, Jayanta Kumar; Das, Gitishree; Paramithiotis, Spiros; Shin, Han-Seung (28 September 2016). "Kimchi and Other Widely Consumed Traditional Fermented Foods of Korea: A Review". Frontiers in Microbiology. 7: 1493. Bibcode:2016FrMic...701493P. doi:10.3389/fmicb.2016.01493. ISSN 1664-302X. PMC 5039233. PMID 27733844.

^ "Kimchi - food". Encyclopedia Britannica. Archived from the original on 20 May 2015. Retrieved 23 June 2022.

^ Kim, M., & Chun, J. (2005). Bacterial community structure in kimchi, a Korean fermented vegetable food, as revealed by 16S rRNA gene analysis. International Journal of Food Microbiology, 103(1), 91-96. See Abstract.

^ Jang, Dai-Ja; Chung, Kyung Rhan; Yang, Hye Jeong; Kim, Kang-sung; Kwon, Dae Young (September 2015). "Discussion on the origin of kimchi, representative of Korean unique fermented vegetables". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 2 (3): 126–136. doi:10.1016/j.jef.2015.08.005.

^ Hongu, Nobuko; Kim, Angela S.; Suzuki, Asuka; Wilson, Hope; Tsui, Karen C.; Park, Sunmin (September 2017). "Korean kimchi : promoting healthy meals through cultural tradition". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 4 (3): 172–180. doi:10.1016/j.jef.2017.08.005.

^ "Document Viewer". www.wikim.re.kr. Archived from the original on 4 October 2023. Retrieved 2 October 2023.

^ a b c 국수 [Noodle (guksu)] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 25 June 2022. Retrieved 29 October 2009.

^ 국수 [Noodle (guksu)] (in Korean). Nate / Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 10 June 2011.

^ (in Korean) 飮淸類 Nate Hanja Dictionary

^ Baek Un-hwa, The industrialization of Korean traditional beverages

^ Introduction of Eumcheongryu, Korea Agro-Fisheries Trade Corporation

^ Sohn Gyeong-hee, Historical overview of Korean traditional eumcheongryu

^ 차 [Tea (cha)] (in Korean). Nate / Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 10 June 2011. Retrieved 23 October 2009.

^ Reuters, "North Korean beer: great taste, low proliferation risk", 9 Mar 2008

^ The Korea Economic Daily, 2006-12-01

^ Food in Korea, "Jontongjoo – Kinds of Traditional Liquors"

^ Roy, Christian (2005). Traditional Festivals: A Multicultural Encyclopedia. ABC-CLIO. p. 285. ISBN 978-1-57607-089-5. Archived from the original on 9 September 2023. Retrieved 26 October 2020.

^ "Kinds of Hangwa". Food in Korea. Korea Agro-Fisheries Trade Corporation. Archived from the original on 23 January 2008. Retrieved 5 August 2008.

^ "Jeonggwa (정과 正果)" (in Korean). Nate / Britannica. Archived from the original on 21 March 2007. Retrieved 5 August 2008.

^ "Jeonggwa (정과 正果" (in Korean). Nate / EncyKorea. Archived from the original on 21 March 2007. Retrieved 5 August 2008.

^ 향토음식 Archived 2011-07-14 at the Wayback Machine Nate Korean-English Dictionary

^ "(Korean Food Culture Series – Part 7) Local Foods". Korea Tourism Organization. 5 February 2008. Archived from the original on 31 May 2012. Retrieved 1 December 2009.

^ 향토음식 鄕土飮食 [Hyangto eumsik] (in Korean). Nate/Britannica. Archived from the original on 10 June 2011.

^ 향토음식 鄕土飮食 [Hyangto eumsik] (in Korean). Nate/Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 10 June 2011.

^ "Sachal eumsik (사찰음식 寺刹飮食)" (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 23 September 2015. Retrieved 2 July 2015.

^ Song, Min-seop (송민섭) (8 May 2005). 심신이 맑아지는 사찰음식…마음까지 정갈 (in Korean). Seyeo Ilbo. Archived from the original on 2 July 2015. Retrieved 2 July 2015.

^ 사찰 음식, 정신을 수양하며 건강을 먹는다 (in Korean). JoongAng Ilbo via Daum News. 1 April 2008. Archived from the original on 3 July 2015. Retrieved 2 July 2015.

^ Jang, J. et al. (2005). Understanding the food culture. [식생활 문화의 이해]. Seoul: Bomungak. ISBN 89-91060-34-X

^ Lee Yeon-ja, "Jeongga's ancestral rites and food culture" Koreana, Vol. 24, No. 2, Summer 2010

^ Ho, Esther "Guide to pojangmacha: Why Koreans love drinking in tents" Archived 2012-03-30 at the Wayback Machine CNN Go. 23 March 2012. Retrieved 2012-04-13

^ "Best specialty food carts in Seoul" Archived 2011-10-19 at the Wayback Machine CNN Go. 7 July 2011. Retrieved 2011-10-11

^ a b c Yi Tŏngmu 62.

^ a b c Pettid 2008, p. 159.

^ a b Jang et al. (2005, p.102).

^ Jeong, H. (2011). Story of alcoholic drink by Professor Jeong Hun Bae [정헌배 교수의 술나라 이야기]. Seoul: Yedam. ISBN 978-89-5913-611-7.

^ Pettid 2008, p. 129.

^ Pettid 2008, p. 130.

^ Pettid 2008, p. 132.

^ Pettid 2008, pp. 130–132.

^ Pettid 2008, p. 133.

^ Pettid 2008, pp. 134–135.

^ a b Olimiko. "koreafoods.net". www.koreafoods.net. Archived from the original on 13 November 2018. Retrieved 22 August 2019.

^ Kim, Jong Su "Royal Banquets and Uigwe during the Late Chosun Period," Korea Journal, Summer 2008

^ Kim, Seong-Ah; Shin, Sangah; Ha, Kyungho; Hwang, Young; Park, Young-Hee; Kang, Min-Sook; Joung, Hyojee (11 January 2020). "Effect of a balanced Korean diet on metabolic risk factors among overweight/obese Korean adults: a randomized controlled trial". European Journal of Nutrition. 59 (7): 3023–3035. doi:10.1007/s00394-019-02141-y. ISSN 1436-6207. PMID 31927671. S2CID 210135076. Archived from the original on 9 September 2023. Retrieved 30 July 2023.

^ Jung, Su-Jin; Chae, Soo-Wan; Shin, Dong-Hwa (15 November 2022). "Fermented Foods of Korea and Their Functionalities". Fermentation. 8 (11): 645. doi:10.3390/fermentation8110645. ISSN 2311-5637.

^ Song, Eunhye; Ang, Lin; Lee, Hye Won; Kim, Myung-Sunny; Kim, You Jin; Jang, Daija; Lee, Myeong Soo (3 April 2023). "Effects of kimchi on human health: a scoping review of randomized controlled trials". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 10 (1) 7. doi:10.1186/s42779-023-00173-8. ISSN 2352-6181.

^ Shin, Aesun; Kim, Jeongseon; Park, Sohee (2011). "Gastric Cancer Epidemiology in Korea". Journal of Gastric Cancer. 11 (3): 135–140. doi:10.5230/jgc.2011.11.3.135. ISSN 2093-582X. PMC 3204471. PMID 22076217. Archived from the original on 9 September 2023. Retrieved 30 July 2023.

Sources

Baek Un-hwa (백운화). Inje Food Science Forum (인제식품과학 FORUM), "Part 3 Status quo and prospect about the industrialization of Korean traditional beverages (제 3 주제 전통 음청류의 산업화 현황과 전망)" taken from [1] on 2008-06-15. pp. 75~95.

Coultrip-Davis, Deborah, Young Sook Ramsay, and Deborah Davis (1998). Flavors of Korea: Delicious Vegetarian Cuisine. Tennessee: Book Publishing Company. ISBN 978-1-57067-053-4.

Cost, Bruce. Asian ingredients: a guide to the foodstuffs of China, Japan, Korea, Thailand, and Vietnam. New York: Harper Perennial, 2000. ISBN 0-06-093204-X

Crawford, Gary W. (2006) East Asian Plant Domestication. In Archaeology of East Asia, edited by Miriam Stark. Wiley-Blackwell, 2006 ISBN 1-4051-0213-6

Food in Korea, "Jontongjoo – Kinds of Traditional Liquors" taken from [2] Archived 23 May 2008 at the Wayback Machine

Herskovitz, Jon. Reuters, "North Korean beer: great taste, low proliferation risk", 9 Mar 2008, taken from [3] Archived 26 October 2021 at the Wayback Machine

Hopkins, Jerry. Extreme Cuisine: The Weird & Wonderful Foods that People Eat, Singapore: Tuttle Publishing, 2004.

Korea Agro-Fisheries Trade Corporation. "Introduction of Eumcheongryu" taken from [4] Archived 13 March 2009 at the Wayback Machine on 2008-05-22.

Korea Tourism Organization. "Experience Royal Cuisine" taken from [5] Archived 26 January 2009 at the Wayback Machine on 2008-06-13.

Koryŏsa, The History of the Koryŏ Dynasty, Seoul, 1990.

National Assembly of the Republic of Korea. "King Sejong's Humanism" taken from [6] Archived 22 June 2008 at the Wayback Machine on 2008-06-10.

Marks, Copeland. The Korean Kitchen: Classic Recipes from the Land of the Morning Calm. San Francisco: Chronicle Books, 1993.

O'Brien, Betsy. Let's Eat Korean Food. Elizabeth, NJ:Hollym, 1997. ISBN 1-56591-071-0

Pettid, Michael J. (2008). Korean cuisine: an illustrated history. Reaktion Books. ISBN 978-1-86189-348-2. Archived from the original on 9 September 2023. Retrieved 22 November 2015.

Sohn Gyeong-hee (손경희). Inje Food Science Forum (인제식품과학 FORUM), "Part 1 HIstorical overview of Korean traditional eumcheongryu (제 1 주제 한국 전통 음청류의 역사적 고찰)" taken from [7] on 2008-06-16.

The Academy of Korean Studies. "농사직설(農事直說), Nongsa jikseol" taken from [8] on 2008-06-10.

"Hanjeongsik, a full-course Korean meal". The Chosun Ilbo. 2001. Archived from the original on 7 July 2003. Retrieved 11 June 2008.

The Korea Economic Daily, "Brew master.. the only beer in the world" (브루 마스터 .. 세계 유일의 맥주) taken from [9] Archived 12 December 2008 at the Wayback Machine

Yi Kyubo, Tongmyŏng-wang p'yŏn (The lay of King Tongmyŏng) in Tongguk Yi Sangguk chip (The Collected Works of Minister Yi of the Eastern Country), Seoul, 1982.

Yi Yang-Cha, and Armin E. Möller (1999). Koreanisch vegetarisch: Die kaum bekannte, fettarme, phantasievolle und küchenfreundliche Art asiatisch zu kochen (Korean Vegetarian: Almost Unknown, Low Fat, Creative and Kitchen-friendly Way of Asian Cooking). ISBN 978-3-7750-0457-2.

Yi Tŏngmu, Sasojŏl (Elementary Etiquette for Scholar Families), quaoted in Sources of Korean Tradition, Volume Two: From the Twentieth Centuries, ed. Yŏongho Ch'oe, Peter H. Lee and W. Theodore de Bary. New York, 2000.

Yu Jisang (유지상). "How about today? Pojangmacha, outing at night" (오늘 어때? 포장마차 ‘밤마실’) taken from [10] Archived 11 December 2008 at the Wayback Machine on 2008-06-13.

External links

Media from Commons

Recipes from Wikibooks

Travel information from Wikivoyage

공공 용어의 외국어 번역 및 표기 지침 (List of names of Korean foods in English) Archived 20 October 2022 at the Wayback Machine

Official site of Korea National Tourism List of Korean Food Archived 28 September 2013 at the Wayback Machine

Food in Korea at the Wayback Machine (archived 6 April 2009) at the Korea Agro-Fisheries Trade Corporation

Food in Korea

List of articles about Korean cuisine at the Doosan Encyclopedia (in Korean)

Categories of Korean cuisine Archived 21 May 2008 at the Wayback Machine at the Empas / EncyKorea (in Korean)

https://folkency.nfm.go.kr/kr/topic/detail/ Archived 21 February 2022 at the Wayback Machine (in Korean)

https://folkency.nfm.go.kr/kr/topic/detail/7618 Archived 6 February 2022 at the Wayback Machine (in Korean)

https://folkency.nfm.go.kr/kr/topic/detail/7929 Archived 21 February 2022 at the Wayback Machine (in Korean)

https://folkency.nfm.go.kr/kr/topic/detail/7858 Archived 21 February 2022 at the Wayback Machine (in Korean)

https://folkency.nfm.go.kr/kr/topic/detail/7777 Archived 21 February 2022 at the Wayback Machine (in Korean)

https://folkency.nfm.go.kr/kr/topic/detail/7544# Archived 21 February 2022 at the Wayback Machine (in Korean)

https://folkency.nfm.go.kr/kr/topic/detail/7963 Archived 21 February 2022 at the Wayback Machine (in Korean)

https://folkency.nfm.go.kr/kr/topic/detail/4128 Archived 21 February 2022 at the Wayback Machine (in Korean)

https://folkency.nfm.go.kr/kr/topic/detail/7981 Archived 21 February 2022 at the Wayback Machine (in Korean)

https://ich.unesco.org/en/RL/kimjang-making-and-sharing-kimchi-in-the-republic-of-korea-00881 Archived 5 February 2021 at the Wayback Machine (in English)

Afghanistan

Armenia

Azerbaijan

Bahrain

Bangladesh

Bhutan

Brunei

Burma (Myanmar)

Cambodia

Cyprus

East Timor (Timor-Leste)

Georgia

Indonesia

Israel

Jordan

Kazakhstan

North Korea

South Korea

Kuwait

Kyrgyzstan

Lebanon

Malaysia

Maldives

Mongolia

Pakistan

Philippines

Russia

Saudi Arabia

Singapore

Sri Lanka

Tajikistan

Thailand

Turkey

Turkmenistan

United Arab Emirates

Uzbekistan

Vietnam

Abkhazia

Northern Cyprus

Palestine

South Ossetia

Taiwan

British Indian Ocean Territory

Christmas Island

Cocos (Keeling) Islands

Hong Kong

Bibimbap

Gimbap

Hoe-deopbap

Nurungji

Ogok-bap

Patbap

Kongbap

Bokkeum-bap

Jumeok-bap

Yaksik

Ssambap

Gukbap

Bulgogi

Galbi Dak-galbi

Dak-galbi

Samgyeopsal

Makchang

Galbijjim

Andong jjimdak

Gyeran-jjim

Agwi-jjim

Sannakji

Yukhoe

Sukhoe

Ganghoe

Kongnamul

Chwinamul

Jangajji

Saengchae

Golbaengi-muchim

Japchae

Pajeon

Kimchi-buchimgae

Bindae-tteok

Aehobakbuchimgae

Myeolchi

Ojingeo

Hanchi

Myeongnan

Gejang

Tteokguk

Haejang-guk

Miyeok-guk

Mandu-guk

Yukgaejang

Gukbap Gul-gukbap Dwaeji-gukbap

Gul-gukbap

Dwaeji-gukbap

Dak-hanmari

Seonjit-guk

Tang Bosintang Chueotang Dak-bokkeum-tang Galbitang Gamjatang Maeuntang Oritang Samgyetang Seolleongtang Yeonpo-tang

Bosintang

Chueotang

Dak-bokkeum-tang

Galbitang

Gamjatang

Maeuntang

Oritang

Samgyetang

Seolleongtang

Yeonpo-tang

Jijimi

Jjigae Doenjang-jjigae Cheonggukjang-jjigae Kimchi-jjigae Sundubu-jjigae Saeujeot-jjigae Budae-jjigae

Doenjang-jjigae

Cheonggukjang-jjigae

Kimchi-jjigae

Sundubu-jjigae

Saeujeot-jjigae

Budae-jjigae

Sinseollo

Jeongol Gopchang jeongol

Gopchang jeongol

Gamja-ongsimi

Naengmyeon

Milmyeon

Jjolmyeon

Japchae

Jajangmyeon

Jjamppong

Bibim-guksu

Sujebi

Janchi-guksu

Kal-guksu

Mak-guksu

Jat-guksu

Kong-guksu

Ramyeon

Jjapaguri

Gogi-guksu

Garak-guksu

Baechu-kimchi

Baek-kimchi

Dongchimi

Nabak-kimchi

Kkakdugi

Pa-kimchi

Yeolmu-kimchi

Gat-kimchi

Geotjeori

Tteokbokki

Sundae

Myeongtae

Korean Fried Chicken

Buldak

Hotteok

Jjinppang

Hoppang

Beondegi

Bungeoppang

Gyeranppang

Hangwa

Tteok Chapssaltteok Songpyeon Yaksik

Chapssaltteok

Songpyeon

Yaksik

Mandu Kimchi mandu Eo-mandu

Kimchi mandu

Eo-mandu

Bokkeum

Anju Jokbal Jokpyeon Pyeonyuk

Jokbal

Jokpyeon

Pyeonyuk

Makgeolli

Cheongju

Dansul

Baekse-ju

Green tea

Insam-cha

Saenggang-cha

Sujeonggwa

Sikhye

Yuja-cha

Bori-cha

Oksusu-cha

Hyeonmi-cha

Sungnyung

Yulmu-cha

Misutgaru

Ambasa

Dalgona coffee

Hangover drinks

Sikhye

Hwachae

Sujeonggwa

Sinseollo

Gujeolpan

Jangguk-juk

Jatjuk

Jeho-tang

Neobiani

Onjium

Baesuk

Tangpyeong-chae

Tarak-juk

Tteok-galbi

Wolgwa-chae

Yuja-hwachae

Jjinppang

Hoppang

Hotteok

Bungeoppang

Gukhwa-ppang

Gyeranppang

Soboro-ppang

Soy sauce Soup soy sauce

Soup soy sauce

Persimmon vinegar

Rice vinegar

Doenjang

Gochujang

Ssamjang

Cheong

Dishes Jeju dishes Seoul dishes

Jeju dishes

Seoul dishes

Ingredients

Bunsik

Beer in South Korea

Street food in South Korea

List of oldest restaurants in South Korea

Category

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

North Korea

South Korea

Military history

Monarchs

Timeline

Gojoseon Dangun Joseon / Gija Joseon / Wiman Joseon / Jin (Korean state)

Dangun Joseon / Gija Joseon / Wiman Joseon / Jin (Korean state)

Proto–Three Kingdoms of Korea Buyeo / Okjeo / Dongye / Samhan / Four Commanderies of Han

Buyeo / Okjeo / Dongye / Samhan / Four Commanderies of Han

Three Kingdoms of Korea Goguryeo / Baekje / Silla / Gaya confederacy

Goguryeo / Baekje / Silla / Gaya confederacy

North–South States Period Later Silla / Balhae

Later Silla / Balhae

Later Three Kingdoms Taebong / Later Baekje / Silla

Taebong / Later Baekje / Silla

Goryeo

Joseon

Korean Empire

Korea under Japanese rule Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea

Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea

Division of Korea United States Army Military Government in Korea / Soviet Civil Administration / Korean War

United States Army Military Government in Korea / Soviet Civil Administration / Korean War

History of South Korea / History of North Korea

Borders

Korean Peninsula

Islands

Mountains

Rivers

Provinces

Regions

Floods

Administrative divisions

Cities

Special cities

Geology

Administrative divisions

Environment

Cities

Special cities

World heritage sites

Geology

Overview

Constitution

Foreign relations

Relations with South Korea

Supreme Leader

Heads of state

Cabinet Premier

Premier

Korean People's Army WMD

Elections

Workers' Party of Korea General Secretary Politburo Secretariat

General Secretary

Politburo

Secretariat

State Affairs Commission President of State Affairs

President of State Affairs

Supreme People's Assembly

Human rights

Overview

Constitution

Foreign relations

Relations with North Korea

Government President Prime Minister

President

Prime Minister

Republic of Korea Armed Forces WMD

Elections Presidential Legislative Political parties

Presidential

Legislative

Political parties

National Assembly

Judiciary Constitutional Court Supreme Court High courts

Constitutional Court

Supreme Court High courts

High courts

Human rights

Overview

Agriculture

Automotive industry

Energy

Telecommunications

Tourism

Transport

North Korean won (currency)

North Korean famine

Jangmadang

Mining

Rason Special Economic Zone

Overview

Agriculture

Automotive industry

Chaebol

Economic inequality Squatting

Squatting

Energy

Telecommunications

Tourism

Transport

South Korean won (currency)

Financial services

Fishing industry

Miracle on the Han River

Science and technology

Trade unions

1997 Asian financial crisis

Koreans

Demographics of North Korea

Demographics of South Korea Aging of South Korea Gender inequality in South Korea Low birth rate in South Korea International adoption of South Korean children Life expectancy

Aging of South Korea

Gender inequality in South Korea

Low birth rate in South Korea

International adoption of South Korean children

Life expectancy

Koreatown

Korean language Hangul Hanja

Hangul

Korean name

Cinema North South

100 Cultural Symbols

Cuisine

Globalization in South Korea

Martial arts

Mythology

Philosophy

Religion

Ssireum (wrestling)

Korean sword

Korean tea ceremony

Tattooing in South Korea

Architecture

Calligraphy

Literature

Traditional music

Painting

Poetry

Pottery and porcelain

Theater

Education

Literature

Religion

Smoking

Arirang Festival

Propaganda

Education

Literature

Religion

Smoking

Cultural icons Korean Wave K-pop

Korean Wave

Marriage

Sexuality

United States

France

BnF data

Latvia

Israel

Yale LUX

# Banchan


Bap Bibimbap Bokkeum-bap Gukbap

Bibimbap

Bokkeum-bap

Gukbap

Juk Mieum

Guksu Naengmyeon

Naengmyeon

Jangajji

Jeotgal

Kimchi Baek-kimchi Dongchimi Kkakdugi Nabak-kimchi

Baek-kimchi

Dongchimi

Kkakdugi

Nabak-kimchi

Soups and stews

Jeongol

Jijimi

Jjigae

Banchan

Bokkeum

Buchimgae Jeon

Jokpyeon

Pyeonyuk

Gwapyeon

Jeonggwa

Kkultarae

Suksilgwa

Yakbap

Yeotgangjeong

Yugwa Gangjeong Hangwa

Gangjeong

Hangwa

Yumilgwa Mandugwa Taraegwa Yakgwa

Mandugwa

Taraegwa

Yakgwa

Baekseolgi

Bupyeon

Gyeongdan

Injeolmi

Jeolpyeon

Jeungpyeon

Mujigae-tteok

Siru-tteok

Songpyeon

Hwachae

Sikhye

Sul (alcoholic drinks)

Sujeonggwa

Doenjang

Ganjang Gukganjang Eoganjang

Gukganjang

Eoganjang

Gochujang

Cheong

Mustard sauce

Oil Perilla oil Sesame oil

Perilla oil

Sesame oil

Ssamjang

Vinegar Persimmon vinegar Rice vinegar

Persimmon vinegar

Rice vinegar

Dolsot

Ttukbaegi

Gamasot

Kimchi Field Museum

Kimchi refrigerator

List of Korean dishes

North Korean cuisine

Korean regional cuisine

Korean Chinese cuisine

Korean royal court cuisine

Korean barbecue

Banchan (/ˈbɑːntʃɑːn/ BAHN-chahn; Korean: 반찬; Hanja: 飯饌; IPA: [pantɕʰan]) are small side dishes served along with cooked rice in Korean cuisine. Banchan are often set in the middle of the table to be shared. At the center of the table is the secondary main course, such as galbi or bulgogi, and a shared pot of jjigae. Bowls of cooked rice and guk (soup) are set individually. Banchan are served in small portions, meant to be finished at each meal and replenished during the meal if not enough. Usually, the more formal the meals are, the more banchan there will be. Jeolla Province is particularly famous for serving many different varieties of banchan in a single meal.[unreliable source?]

The basic table setting for a meal called bansang usually consists of bap (밥, cooked rice), guk or tang (soup), gochujang or ganjang, jjigae, and kimchi. According to the number of banchan added, the table setting is called 3 cheop (삼첩), 5 cheop (오첩), 7 cheop (칠첩), 9 cheop (구첩), 12 cheop (십이첩) bansang, with the 12 cheop used in Korean royal cuisine. Note that kimchi is not included in the cheop count. People would have[when?] different amounts of banchan depending on their class; a king would have 12, with others usually having less.

History

Banchan is thought to be a result of Buddhist influence at around the mid-Three Kingdoms period and the subsequent proscription against eating meat by the monarchies of these kingdoms. Thus, with the ban on meat-containing dishes, vegetable-based dishes rose in prominence and became the focal point of Korean cuisine; court kitchens developed various methods for cooking, preparing and presenting these dishes, while less-affluent commoners produced smaller, simpler arrays of these vegetable-based dishes.

Although the Mongol invasions of Korea ended the ban on meat-containing dishes, as well as meat offerings for rituals such as jesa, approximately six centuries of vegetable-based cuisine in the form of banchan had imprinted itself into Korean cuisine.

During the Joseon Dynasty, Buddhism was shunned while Confucianism remained the dominant ideology that was followed. Tea was no longer served in the palace and slowly began to dwindle, however, the ceremony of tea and rice cakes as snacks endured.[clarification needed] Through food, the Joseon kings were able to see the living conditions of their people. "Accordingly, royal cuisine in the final period of the Joseon Dynasty was borne out of a culture of restraint based on Confucian ideology, but experienced changes after the 18th century as taste and personal preference became more dominant values" (Chung et al., 2017). Whilst personal preference became more dominant there was still a weight placed on the significance of formalities, which is an exceptionally Confucian mindset. The Kobaeumsik, a religious food served layer upon layer, said to symbolize the power of the King, is a prime example of the Confucian esthetic elements prevalent in Korean cuisine. Royal cuisine placed an enormous weight on the philosophy of Yaksikdongwon or the health purpose of food. The goal was to create nutritionally balanced food that also achieved synergy and a sense of balance between Yin and Yang (Chung et al., 2017). "The Korean Empire was also influenced by foreign cuisine, and western-style banquets were held in Deoksugung Palace. King Kojong is known to have been a fan of coffee. As Emperor Sunjong took the throne, royal cuisine was introduced to the common people through royal chefs and cooks" (Chung et al., 2017). In the olden days,[when?] it is believed that the 12 banchan setting was for people with a higher ranking such as the king or emperor while the rest of the noble family members will have a maximum of 9 banchan served. The different banchan setting was used to distinguish the power and hierarchy between the royals.[citation needed]

Fermenting was traditionally preferred for preserving food because cooking oil was in short supply in Korea, in contrast to China where frying and pickling were preferred. The prominence of fermented and preserved foods in bansang is due to the need to apply a preservation method that could survive harsh winters and summers filled with extreme temperatures (Kim et al., 2016b). Due to their focus on agriculture, the main ingredients in their fermented foods were grains and vegetables. The fermentation process is necessary, as most parts of the Korean peninsula are isolated by mountains from all sides.[clarification needed] The fermentation of grains, beans, fish and vegetables allowed for the preservation of nutrients as well as the food itself. The act of fermentation as well as the other varied cooking methods have created unforeseen health benefits that are being studied by food scientists in the modern age (Kim et al., 2016a). Additionally, this process of fermentation can be used to enrich the flavor profile of food with the use of gochujang. Kimchi is a perfect example of this enriched food utilizing the flavor and fermentation process together. Therefore,[clarification needed] banchan is mainly seasoned with fermented soy products, medicinal herbs, and sesame or perilla oils.

Gochujang was added to enhance each meal. Potentially, this could refer to another chojang (vinegar sauce)[clarification needed] that was used as a dipping sauce. The production of gochujang was so vital to Korean cuisine that it was stated in the Hurbaekjeongjip, a 15th-century book written by Gwidal Hong, that "the quality of gochujang decided the farming success of that year".[clarification needed] Gochujang is a chief seasoning and fermentation agent of many banchan. This has been the case for centuries. There are other jang used not only for their fermentation and nutrition merits, but also their flavor as a dipping sauce. There are many types of jang that are referenced in Korean historical texts (Kim, Chung, et al., 2016). Another excellent example of jang is chojang (vinegar sauce) that was used as a dipping sauce Mustard was an additional important seasoning used to enrich the flavor of the foods. Chojang was made by mixing gochujang with honey, vinegar, and ground pine nuts. It was made by adding mustard powder or whole mustard to water and grinding it out, then adding vinegar, salt and sugar and leaving the mixture upside down in a warm place.

For the fermentation of vegetables jangkwa (pickled vegetables and fruit) were served. These dishes were created by pickling the different seasonal vegetables with kanjang, gochujang, and doenjang. However, in the palace, jangkwa also referred to a dish made by pickling cucumber, radish, young radish, parsley, or cabbage heart with salt, then drying it in the sun, removing all moisture; the vegetables were then stir-fried with beef, shredded red pepper, sesame oil, and sesame and salt.

Varieties

Kimchi

Kimchi is a popular banchan which requires vegetables to undergo a fermentation process with different Korean spices. Kimchi is high in dietary fiber and low in calories, but is also high in many different nutrients that can be beneficial for the body. Through the fermentation process, kimchi produces vitamins and minerals including B-complex vitamins.[citation needed]

Kimchi is fermented vegetables, usually baechu (napa cabbage), seasoned with chili peppers and salt. This is the essential banchan of a standard Korean meal. Some Koreans do not consider a meal complete without kimchi. Kimchi can be made with other vegetables as well, including scallions, gat (갓), and radish (무; mu).

Namul (나물) refers to steamed, marinated, or stir-fried vegetables usually seasoned with sesame oil, salt, vinegar, minced garlic, chopped green onions, dried chili peppers, and soy sauce.

Bokkeum

Bokkeum (볶음) is a dish stir-fried with sauce.

Kimchi bokkeum (김치볶음) – Stir-fried kimchi, often with pork (similar to jeyook bokkeum).

Jeyuk bokkeum (제육볶음) – Stir-fried pork with gochujang (chili pepper paste) sauce and onions.

Ojingeochae bokkeum (오징어채볶음) – Stir-fried dried shredded squid seasoned with a mixture of gochujang (chili pepper paste), garlic, and mullyeot (syrup-like condiment).

Nakji bokkeum (낙지볶음) – Stir-fried baby octopus in spicy gochujang sauce.

Beoseot bokkeum (버섯볶음) – Stir-fried mushrooms such as pyogo, oyster mushrooms, pine mushrooms.

Myeolchi bokkeum (멸치볶음) – Stir-fried dried anchovies.

Jorim is a dish simmered in a seasoned broth.

Dubu-jorim (두부조림) – Tofu simmered in diluted soy sauce, a little bit of sesame oil, minced garlic, and chopped green onion.

Jang-jorim (장조림) – Beef simmered in soy sauce, optionally with hard-boiled eggs or hard-boiled quail eggs.

Jjim is a steamed dish.

Gyeran-jjim (계란찜) – Mixed and seasoned eggs steamed in a hot pot, sometimes add some very small cut carrot.

Saengseon jjim (생선찜)- Steamed fish.

Jeon denotes a variety of pan-fried, pancake-like dishes. Buchimgae is a near synonym.

Pajeon (파전) – Thin pancakes with scallions.

Kimchijeon (김치전) – Thin pancakes with old (ripe) kimchi.

Gamjajeon (감자전) – Korean-style potato pancakes.

Saengseon-jeon (생선전) – Small portions of fish coated with eggs and pan-fried.

Donggeurang ttaeng (동그랑땡) – Patty made with tofu, meat and vegetables, coated with eggs and pan-fried.

Yukjeon (육전) – Bite-sized beef coated in flour and egg and grilled in a pan.

Others

Danmuji (단무지) – A pickled radish marinated in a natural yellow dye made from gardenia fruit.

Gyeran-mari (계란말이) – A rolled omelet served in slices.

Japchae (잡채) – A stand-alone dish in its own right, japchae can also be eaten as banchan. Japchae is glass noodles accompanied with a variety of vegetables and beef in a slightly sweet garlic sauce.

Korean-style potato salad (감자 샐러드) with apples and carrots.

Morkovcha - Koryo-saram carrot salad, based on kimchi

Gallery

Various banchan served at a table

Table setting in Jeolla Province with many banchan

Ojingeochae bokkeum (오징어채볶음)

Yeongeun jorim (연근조림)

Gyeran jjim (계란찜) in a hot ttukbaegi

Samsaek jeon (삼색전); any three different colored jeon are referred to as such

Japchae

See also

Korean table d'hôte

Beyaynetu

Kamayan

Smörgåsbord

References

^ Bhandari, Aparita (22 March 2017). "Learning how to eat banchan". Toronto Star. Retrieved 15 April 2017.

^ (in Korean) Hanjeongsik from Naver open dictionary, food columnist Lee Jin-rang (이진랑), 17 July 2005

^ (in Korean) Making a bansang from Doosan Encyclopedia

^ a b c d "About Banchan". Hannaone. Archived from the original on 18 May 2010.

^ Chung, Hae-Kyung; Shin, Dayeon; Chung, Kyung Rhan; Choi, Soe Yeon; Woo, Nariyah (2017). "Recovering the royal cuisine in Joseon Dynasty and its esthetics". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 4 (4): 242–253. doi:10.1016/j.jef.2017.12.001.

^ Kim et al. 2016, p. 27.

^ a b c Kim et al. 2016.

^ a b c d e Chung, Hae-Kyung; Shin, Dayeon; Chung, Kyung Rhan; Choi, Soe Yeon; Woo, Nariyah (2017). "Recovering the royal cuisine in Chosun Dynasty and its esthetics". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 4 (4): 242–253. doi:10.1016/j.jef.2017.12.001.

^ "Types of Kimchi". Korea Tourism Organization. Archived from the original on 5 January 2013. Retrieved 4 April 2013.

^ 겉절이 (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Retrieved 4 April 2013.

^ Types of kimchi Archived 2010-02-07 at the Wayback Machine from Kimchi Time

^ "Korean Food: Seasoned Vegetables". Life in Korea. Retrieved 4 April 2013.

^ Chung, Suzy (10 April 2012). "Herbivore's delight – Spring namul". Korea.net. Archived from the original on 30 April 2013.

^ "Spinach Side Dish Sigeumchi Namul (시금치나물)". Maangcshi.com. Retrieved 4 April 2013.

^ Sook Choe Ji, Yukiko Moriyama (2003). Quick and Easy Korean Cooking for Everyone. Japan Publications Trading. p. 42. ISBN 9784889961249.

^ 무생채 (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Retrieved 4 April 2013.

^ 비름나물 고추장무침 (in Korean). Allrecipes.kr. Archived from the original on 5 October 2013. Retrieved 4 April 2013.

^ "Naengi namul (shepherd's purse namul)". Sanchon. Retrieved 4 April 2013.[permanent dead link]

^ "Gogumasun namul". Trifood. Archived from the original on 24 April 2016. Retrieved 4 April 2013.

^ a b c "Stir-fried dishes". Life in Korea. Archived from the original on 9 March 2013. Retrieved 4 April 2013.

^ "Jae-Yook (Kim-Chi) Bo-Kum". Trifood. Archived from the original on 26 October 2021. Retrieved 4 April 2013.

^ 오징어채볶음 (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Retrieved 4 April 2013.

^ 두부조림(dubu jorim / Braised Pan-Fried Tofu) (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Retrieved 4 April 2013.

^ 계란찜 (in Korean). Sports Kyunghyang. 13 March 2013. Retrieved 5 April 2013.

^ "Saengseon Jjim Braised Fish With Radish in Seasoned Soy Sauce". The Korea Times. 7 January 2010. Retrieved 5 April 2013.

^ a b c "A List of Korean Savory Pancakes". About.com. Archived from the original on 11 February 2013. Retrieved 5 April 2013.

^ 감자전 (in Korean). The Dong-A Ilbo. Archived from the original on 27 February 2004. Retrieved 5 April 2013.

^ "Saengseon Jeon (Pan-Grilled Fish With Egg)". Korea Timea. 10 December 2009. Retrieved 5 April 2013.

^ 동그랑땡 (in Korean). Donga Woman. 2006. Archived from the original on 6 April 2015. Retrieved 5 April 2013.

^ 육전. terms.naver.com (in Korean). Retrieved 8 June 2021.

Kim, Soon Hee; Kim, Myung Sunny; Lee, Myoung Sook; Park, Yong Soon; Lee, Hae Jeong; Kang, Soon-ah; Lee, Hyun Sook; Lee, Kyung-Eun; Yang, Hye Jeong; Kim, Min Jung; Lee, Young-Eun; Kwon, Dae Young (1 March 2016). "Korean diet: Characteristics and historical background". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 3 (1). Elsevier: 26–31. doi:10.1016/j.jef.2016.03.002.

External links

Introduction to Korean Food

About Korean Cuisine Archived 26 September 2018 at the Wayback Machine

The characteristics of Korean food

# Kimchi


Cookbook: Kimchi

Media: Kimchi

Kimchi (/ˈkɪmtʃi/; Korean: 김치; RR: gimchi; pronounced [kim.tɕʰi]), also written as kimchee, is a traditional Korean side dish (banchan) consisting of salted and fermented vegetables, most often napa cabbage or Korean radish. A wide selection of seasonings are used, including gochugaru (Korean chili powder), spring onions, garlic, ginger, and jeotgal (salted seafood). Kimchi is also used in a variety of soups and stews. Kimchi is a staple food in Korean cuisine and is eaten as a side dish with almost every Korean meal.

There are hundreds of different types of kimchi made with different vegetables as the main ingredients. Examples of variants include baechu-kimchi, kkakdugi, chonggak-kimchi, and oi-sobagi. Traditionally, winter kimchi, called gimjang, was stored in large earthenware fermentation vessels, called onggi, in the ground to prevent freezing during the winter months and to keep it cool enough to slow down the fermentation process during summer months. The process of making kimchi was called gimjang and was a way for the whole village to participate. The vessels are also kept outdoors in special terraces called jangdokdae. Recently, household kimchi refrigerators are more commonly used.

Etymology

The term ji (지), which has its origins in archaic Korean dihi (디히), has been used to refer to kimchi since ancient times. The sound change can be roughly described as:

dihi (디히) > di (디) > ji (지)

The Middle Korean form dihi is found in several books from the Joseon period (1392–1897). In Modern Korean, the word remains as the suffix -ji in the standard language (as in jjanji, seokbak-ji), and as the suffix -ji as well as the noun ji in Gyeongsang and Jeolla dialects. The unpalatalized form di is preserved in P'yŏngan dialect.

Kimchi

Kimchi (김치) is the accepted word in both North and South Korean standard languages. Earlier forms of the word include thimchoy (팀ᄎᆡ), a Middle Korean transcription of the Sino-Korean word 沈菜 (literally "submerged vegetable"). Thimchoy appears in Sohak Eonhae, the 16th-century Korean rendition of the Chinese book, Xiaoxue. Sound changes from Middle Korean to Modern Korean regarding the word can be described as:

thimchoy (팀ᄎᆡ; 沈菜) > timchoy (딤ᄎᆡ) > cimchoy (짐ᄎᆡ) > cimchuy (짐츼) > kimchi (김치)

The aspirated first consonant of thimchoy became unaspirated in timchoy, then underwent palatalization in cimchoy. The word then became cimchuy with the loss of the vowel o (ㆍ) in Korean language, then kimchi, with the depalatalized word-initial consonant. In Modern Korean, the hanja characters 沈菜 are pronounced chimchae (침채), and are not used to refer to kimchi, or anything else. The word kimchi is not considered as a Sino-Korean word. Older forms of the word are retained in many regional dialects: jimchae (Jeolla, Hamgyŏng dialects), jimchi (Chungcheong, Gangwon, Gyeonggi, Gyeongsang, Hamgyŏng, Jeolla dialects), and dimchi (P'yŏngan dialect).

The spelling "kimchi" originated from the McCune–Reischauer transcription kimch'i (김치).

History

Early history

Samguk Sagi, a historical record of the Three Kingdoms of Korea, mentions the pickle jar used to ferment vegetables, which indicates that fermented vegetables were commonly eaten during this time. Attributed to the earliest kimchi, the Goguryeo people were skilled at fermenting and widely consumed fermented food. During the Silla dynasty (57 BCE – CE 935), kimchi became prevalent as Buddhism caught on throughout the nation and fostered a vegetarian lifestyle.

The pickling of vegetables was an ideal method, prior to refrigerators, that helped to preserve the lifespan of foods. In Korea, kimchi was made during the winter by fermenting vegetables, and burying them in the ground in traditional brown ceramic pots called onggi. This labor further allowed a bonding among women within the family. A poem on Korean radish written by Yi Gyubo, a 13th-century literatus, shows that radish kimchi was common in Goryeo (918–1392).

Pickled radish slices make a good summer side dish,Radish preserved in salt is a winter side dish from start to end.The roots in the earth grow plumper every day,Harvesting after the frost, a slice cut by a knife tastes like a pear.

— Yi Gyubo, Donggukisanggukjip (translated by Michael J. Pettid, in Korean cuisine: An Illustrated History)

Kimchi has been a staple in Korean culture, but historical versions were not a spicy dish. Early records of kimchi do not mention garlic or chili pepper. Chili peppers, now a standard ingredient in kimchi, had been unknown in Korea until the early seventeenth century due to it being a New World crop. Chili peppers, originally native to the Americas, were introduced to East Asia by Portuguese traders. The first mention of chili pepper is found in Jibong yuseol, an encyclopedia published in 1614. Sallim gyeongje, a 17‒18th century book on farm management, wrote on kimchi with chili peppers. However, it was not until the 19th century that the use of chili peppers in kimchi became widespread. Recipes from the early 19th century closely resemble today's kimchi.

A 1766 book, Jeungbo sallim gyeongje, reports kimchi varieties made with myriad ingredients, including chonggak-kimchi (kimchi made with chonggak radish), oi-sobagi (with cucumber), seokbak-ji (with jogi-jeot), and dongchimi. However, napa cabbage was introduced to Korea only at the end of 19th century, and whole-cabbage kimchi similar to its current form is described in Siuijeonseo, a cookbook published around that time.

Modern history

During South Korea's involvement in the Vietnam War, the industrialization and commercialization of kimchi production became increasingly important because the Korean government wanted to provide rations for its troops. The Korean government requested American help to ensure that South Korean troops, reportedly "desperate" for the food, could obtain it in the field.

In 2008, South Korean scientists created a special low-calorie, vitamin-rich "space kimchi" for Yi So-yeon, the first Korean astronaut, to take to space. It was bacteria-free, unlike normal kimchi in which bacteria are essential for fermentation. It was feared that cosmic rays might mutate the bacteria.

South Korea developed programs for adult Korean adoptees to return to South Korea and learn about what it means to be Korean. One of these programs was learning how to make kimchi.

In 1996, Korea protested against Japanese commercial production of kimchi arguing that the Japanese-produced product (kimuchi, キムチ) was different from kimchi. In particular, Japanese kimchi was not fermented and was more similar to asazuke. Korea lobbied for an international standard from the Codex Alimentarius, an organization associated with the World Health Organization that defines voluntary standards for food preparation for international trade purposes. In 2001, the Codex Alimentarius published a voluntary standard defining kimchi as "a fermented food that uses salted napa cabbages as its main ingredient mixed with seasonings, and goes through a lactic acid production process at a low temperature", but which neither specified a minimum amount of fermentation nor forbade the use of any additives. Following the inclusion of the kimchi standard, kimchi exports in Korea did increase, but so did the production of kimchi in China and the import of Chinese kimchi into Korea.

Due to heavy rainfall shortening the harvesting time for cabbage and other main ingredients for kimchi in 2010, the price of kimchi ingredients and kimchi itself rose greatly. Korean and international newspapers described the rise in prices as a national crisis. Some restaurants stopped offering kimchi as a free side dish, which The New York Times compared to an American hamburger restaurant no longer offering free ketchup. In response to the kimchi price crisis, the South Korean government announced the temporary reduction of tariffs on imported cabbage to coincide with the kimjang season.

Kimchi-related items have been inscribed on UNESCO's Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity by both South and North Korea. This makes kimchi the second intangible heritage that was submitted by two countries, the other one being the folk song "Arirang" which was also submitted by both the Koreas. "The culture of kimjang" was the subject of the Intangible Cultural Heritage: kimchi is not registered by itself.

Kimjang, the tradition of making and sharing kimchi that usually takes place in late autumn, was added to the list as "Gimjang, making and sharing kimchi in the Republic of Korea". The practice of Gimjang reaffirms Korean identity and strengthens family cooperation. Gimjang is also an important reminder for many Koreans that human communities need to live in harmony with nature.

North Korean kimchi-making was inscribed on the list in December 2015 as "Tradition of kimchi-making in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea". North Korean kimchi tends to be less spicy and less red than South Korean kimchi. Seafood is used less often and less salt is added. Additional sugar is used to help with fermentation in the cold climate.

In the United States, the states California, Virginia, Maryland and New York, and the capital city Washington D.C. have issued proclamations declaring 22 November as 'Kimchi Day' to recognize the importance of the dish as part of Korean culture.

Since 2012, the Chinese government has effectively banned the import of Korean kimchi through government regulations. Ignoring the standards of kimchi outlined by the Codex Alimentarius, China defined kimchi as a derivative of one of its own cuisines, called pao cai. However, due to significantly different preparation techniques from pao cai, kimchi has significantly more lactic acid bacteria through its fermentation process, which exceeds China's regulations. Since 2012, commercial exports of Korean kimchi to China has reached zero; the only minor amounts of exports accounting for Korean kimchi are exhibition events held in China.

A 2017 article in The New York Times said that anti-Korean sentiment in China had risen after South Korea's acceptance of the deployment of THAAD in South Korea. Government-run Chinese news media encouraged the boycott of South Korean goods, and some Chinese nationalists vowed not to eat kimchi. The move was criticized by other Chinese nationalists, who noted that China officially considered Koreans an integral ethnic group in the multinational state, and that kimchi is also indigenous to the Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture.

In November 2020, the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) posted ISO 24220:2020, new regulations for the making of pao cai. The same month, BBC News reported that Chinese news organization Global Times claimed the new ISO standard was "an international standard for the kimchi industry led by China" despite the standard clearly stating "this document does not apply to kimchi". This sparked strong anger from South Korean media and people, as well as the responses from some Chinese people who argued China held the right to claim kimchi as their own.

However clarifications from both countries, later revealed that the controversy was triggered over a misunderstanding of a translation of the Chinese word pao cai. After the controversy emerged, Global Times explained it was simply a "misunderstanding in translation", where they had meant to refer to Chinese pao cai, and their Chinese language article had used the term pao cai, but their English language version had "erroneously" translated it as "kimchi", and that the dispute arose from being innocently "lost in translation". They acknowledged that kimchi and pao cai are two different foods, where "Kimchi refers to a kind of fermented cabbage dish that plays an integral role in Korean cuisine, while pàocài, or Sichuan pàocài, refers to pickled vegetables that are popular originally in Southwest China's Sichuan Province, but now in most parts of northern China." Global Times also reported that Baidu Baike, a Chinese online encyclopedia, removed the controversial phrase "Korean kimchi originated from China" after the request.

According to Sojin Lim, co-director of the Institute of Korean Studies of the University of Central Lancashire, Korean kimchi is often called pao cai in China, but China has its own Sichuanese fermented vegetable dish that it also calls pao cai. In 2021, the South Korean Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism subsequently presented the guidelines to set the term xīnqí (辛奇) as the new proper Chinese translation of kimchi, while pàocài was no longer the acceptable translation. However, CNN reported that the new Chinese translation of kimchi was unpopular with both Chinese and Korean netizens, and that some Chinese people complained that they do recognize the difference between dishes, but don't like to be told how to translate Kimchi in Chinese. There were also complaints among Koreans that Korea is appropriating their own traditional culture for the Chinese, by trying to promote a Chinese term for Kimchi which doesn't have an authentic Korean sound.

Ingredients

Kimchi varieties are determined by the main vegetable ingredients and the mix of seasoning used to flavor the kimchi.

Vegetables

Cabbages (napa cabbages, bomdong, headed cabbages) and radishes (Korean radishes, ponytail radishes, gegeol radishes, yeolmu radishes) are the most commonly used kimchi vegetables. Other kimchi vegetables include aster, balloon flower roots, burdock roots, celery, chamnamul, cilantro, cress, crown daisy greens, cucumber, eggplant, garlic chives, garlic scapes, ginger, Korean angelica-tree shoots, Korean parsley, Korean wild chive, lotus roots, mustard greens, onions, perilla leaves, bamboo shoot, Momordica charantia, pumpkins, radish greens, rapeseed leaves, scallions, seaweed, soybean sprouts, spinach, sugar beets, sweet potato vines, and tomatoes.

Seasonings

Brining salt (with a larger grain size compared to kitchen salt) is used mainly for initial salting of kimchi vegetables. Being minimally processed, it serves to help develop flavors in fermented foods. Cabbage is usually salted twice when making spicy kimchi.

Commonly used seasonings include gochugaru (chili powder), scallions, garlic, ginger, and jeotgal (salted seafood) Jeotgal can be replaced with raw seafood in colder Northern parts of the Korean peninsula. If used, milder saeu-jeot (salted shrimp) or jogi-jeot (salted croaker) is preferred and the amount of jeotgal is also reduced in Northern and Central regions. In Southern Korea, on the other hand, a generous amount of stronger myeolchi-jeot (salted anchovies) and galchi-jeot (salted hairtail) is commonly used. Raw seafood or daegu-agami-jeot (salted cod gills) are used in the East coast areas.

Salt, scallions, garlic, fish sauce, and sugar are commonly added to flavor the kimchi.

Production

To make kimchi, cabbage or daikon is sliced into small, uniform pieces to increase surface area. The pieces are then coated with salt to draw out water and increase salt content, which helps preserve them by preventing the growth of harmful microorganisms. This salting process can use 5–7% salt for 12 hours or 15% salt for 3–7 hours.

After salting, excess water is drained and the seasoning ingredients are added. Sugar can be used to bind any remaining water. Finally, the brined vegetables are packed into airtight jars and left to ferment at room temperature for 24 to 48 hours. The ideal salt concentration during fermentation is about 3%.

Since the fermentation process results in the production of carbon dioxide, the jar should be "burped" daily to release the gas. The more fermentation that occurs, the more carbon dioxide will be incorporated, which results in a very carbonated-drink-like effect.

Microorganisms in kimchi

The microorganisms present in kimchi include Bacillus mycoides, B. pseudomycoides, B. subtilis, Lactobacillus brevis, Lb. curvatus, Lb. kimchii, Lb. parabrevis, Lb. pentosus, Lb. plantarum, Lb. sakei, Lb. spicheri, Lactococcus carnosum, Lc. gelidum, Lc. lactis, Leuconostoc carnosum, Ln. citreum, Ln. gasicomitatum, Ln. gelidum, Ln. holzapfelii, Ln. inhae, Ln. kimchii, Ln. lactis, Ln. mesenteroides, Serratia marcescens, Weissella cibaria, W. confusa, W. kandleri, W. kimchii. W. koreensis, and W. soli. Archaea and yeasts, such as Saccharomyces, Candida, Pichia, and Kluyveromyces are also present in kimchi, with the latter being responsible for undesirable white colonies that sometimes form in the product as well as food spoilages and off-flavors.

In early fermentation stages, the Leuconostoc variety is found more dominantly in kimchi fermentation because of its lower acid tolerance and microaerophilic properties; the Leuconostoc variety also grows better at low salt concentrations. Throughout the fermentation process, as acidity rises, the Lactobacillus and Weissella variety become dominant because of their higher acid tolerance. Lactobacillus also grows better in conditions with a higher salt concentration.

These microorganisms are present due to the natural microflora provided by utilizing unsterilized food materials in the production of kimchi. The step of salting the raw materials as well as the addition of red pepper powder inhibits the pathogenic and putrefactive bacteria present in the microflora, allowing the lactic acid bacteria (LAB) to flourish and become the dominant microorganism. These anaerobic microorganisms steadily increase in number during the middle stages of fermentation, and prefer to be kept at low temperatures of about 10°C, pH of 4.2-4, and remain in the presence of 1.5% – 4% NaCl. A faster fermentation at a higher temperature may be chosen as well to accelerate the growth of bacterial cultures for a faster decrease in pH level.

Since the raw cruciferous vegetables themselves are the source of LAB required for fermentation, no starter culture is required for the production of kimchi; rather, spontaneous fermentation occurs. The total population of microorganisms present at the beginning of processing determines the outcome of fermentation, causing the final product to be highly variable in terms of quality and flavor. Currently, there are no recommended approaches to control the microbial community during fermentation to predict the outcome. In the industrial production of kimchi, starter cultures made up of Leu. mesenteroides, Leu. citreum, and Lb. plantarum are used, which are often unsuccessful because they fail to outcompete the naturally occurring cultures on the raw materials.

By-products of microorganisms

The lactic acid bacteria (LAB) produce lactic acid, hydrogen peroxide, and carbon dioxide as by-products during metabolism. Lactic acid quickly lowers the pH, creating an acidic environment that is uninhabitable for most other microorganisms that survived salting. This also modifies the flavor of sub-ingredients and can increase the nutritive value of the raw materials, as the microbial community in the fermentation process can synthesize B vitamins and hydrolyze cellulose in plant tissues to free nutrients that are normally indigestible by the human gastrointestinal tract. Hydrogen peroxide is formed by the oxidation of reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) and provides an antibiotic to inhibit some undesirable microorganisms. Carbon dioxide functions as a preservative, flushing out oxygen to create an anaerobic environment, as well as creating the desired carbonation in the final product.

Kimchi is known for its strong, spicy, flavors and odors, although milder varieties exist. Variations in the fermentation process cause the final product to be highly variable in terms of quality and flavor. The strong odor is especially tied to the sulfur compounds from garlic and ginger of kimchi, which can be less appealing to non-Koreans. Thus, scientists are experimenting with the types of bacteria used in its production to minimize the odor to increase the appeal to international markets. These efforts are not universally appreciated by lovers of kimchi, as the flavor is affected in the process, and some see that "South Korea's narrative about its own culinary staple" is being manipulated to suit the foreigners' tastes.

Varieties

Kimchi is one of the most important staples of Korean cuisine. The Korean term "Kimchi" refers to fermented vegetables, and encompasses salt and seasoned vegetables. It is mainly served as a side dish with every meal, but also can be served as a main dish. Kimchi is mainly recognized as a spicy fermented cabbage dish globally.

New variations of kimchi continue to be created, and the taste can vary depending on the region and season. Conventionally, the secret of kimchi preparation was passed down by mothers to their daughters in a bid to make them suitable wives to their husbands. However, with the current technological advancement and increase in social media use, many individuals worldwide can now access recipes for kimchi preparation.

Kimchi can be categorized by main ingredients, regions or seasons. Korea's northern and southern sections have a considerable temperature difference. There are over 180 recognized varieties of kimchi. The most common kimchi variations are:

Baechu-kimchi (배추김치) spicy napa cabbage kimchi, made from whole cabbage leaves

Baechu-geotjeori (배추겉절이) unfermented napa cabbage kimchi

Bossam-kimchi (보쌈김치) wrapped kimchi

Baek-kimchi (백김치) white kimchi, made without chili pepper

Dongchimi (동치미) a non-spicy watery kimchi

Nabak-kimchi (나박김치) a mildly spicy watery kimchi

Chonggak-kimchi (총각김치) cubed chonggak "ponytail" radish, a popular spicy kimchi

Kkakdugi (깍두기) spicy cubed Korean radish strongly-scented kimchi containing fermented shrimp

Oi-sobagi (오이소박이) cucumber kimchi that can be stuffed with seafood and chili paste, and is a popular choice during the spring and summer seasons

Pa-kimchi (파김치) spicy green onion kimchi

Yeolmu-kimchi (열무김치) is also a popular choice during the spring and summer, and is made with yeolmu radishes, and does not necessarily have to be fermented.

Gat-kimchi (갓김치), made with Indian mustard

Yangbaechu-kimchi (양배추 김치) spicy cabbage kimchi, made from "headed" cabbage leaves (as opposed to napa cabbage)

Kimchi from the northern parts of Korea tend to have less salt and red chili and usually do not include brined seafood for seasoning. Northern kimchi often has a watery consistency. Kimchi made in the southern parts of Korea, such as Jeolla Province and Gyeongsang Province, uses salt, chili peppers and myeolchijeot (멸치젓, brined anchovy allowed to ferment) or saeujeot (새우젓, brined shrimp allowed to ferment), myeolchiaekjeot (멸치액젓), anchovy fish sauce, kkanariaekjeot (까나리액젓), liquid anchovy jeot, similar to fish sauce used in Southeast Asia, but thicker.

Saeujeot (새우젓) or myeolchijeot is not added to the kimchi spice-seasoning mixture, but is simmered first to reduce odors, eliminate tannic flavor and fats, and then is mixed with a thickener made of rice or wheat starch (풀). This technique has been falling into disuse in the past 40 years.

White kimchi is neither red nor spicy. It includes white napa cabbage kimchi and other varieties such as white radish kimchi (dongchimi). Watery white kimchi varieties are sometimes used as an ingredient in a number of dishes such as cold noodles in dongchimi brine (dongchimi-guksu).

Geotjeori (겉절이): unfermented kimchi meant to be eaten fresh

Mugeun-ji (묵은지), also known as mugeun-kimchi (묵은김치): aged kimchi

Region

The following regional classification dates to the 1960s. Since then, kimchi-making practices and trends in Korea have diverged from it.

Pyongan Province Non-traditional ingredients have been adopted in rural areas due to severe food shortages.

Hamgyong Province: Due to its proximity to the ocean, people in this particular region use fresh fish and oysters to season their kimchi.

Hwanghae Province: The taste of kimchi in Hwanghae Province is not bland but not extremely spicy. Most kimchi from this region have less color since red chili flakes are not used. The typical kimchi in Hwanghae Province is called hobakji (호박지). It is made with pumpkin (bundi).Kimchi-buchimgae, a savory Korean pancake with kimchi

Gyeonggi Province

Chungcheong Province: Instead of using fermented fish, people in the region rely on salt and fermentation to make savory kimchi. Chungcheong Province has the most varieties of kimchi.

Gangwon Province, South Korea/Kangwon Province, North Korea: In Gangwon Province, kimchi is stored for longer periods. Unlike other coastal regions in Korea, kimchi in this area does not contain much salted fish.

Jeolla Province: Salted yellow corvina and salted butterfish are used in this region to create different seasonings for kimchi.

Gyeongsang Province: This region's cuisine is saltier and spicier. The most common seasoning components include myeolchijeot (멸치젓) which produces a briny and savory flavor. They also use oysters in their kimchi.

Foreign countries: In some places of the world people sometimes make kimchi with western cabbage and many other alternative ingredients such as broccoli.

Seasonal variations

Different types of kimchi were traditionally made at different times of the year, based on when various vegetables were in season and also to take advantage of hot and cold seasons before the era of refrigeration. Although the advent of modern refrigeration – including kimchi refrigerators specifically designed with precise controls to keep different varieties of kimchi at optimal temperatures at various stages of fermentation – has made this seasonality unnecessary, Koreans continue to consume kimchi according to traditional seasonal preferences.

After a long period of consuming gimjang kimchi (김장김치) during the winter, fresh potherbs and vegetables were used to make kimchi. These kinds of kimchi were not fermented or even stored for long periods of time but were consumed fresh.

Yeolmu radishes and cucumbers are summer vegetables made into kimchi, yeolmu-kimchi (열무김치) which is eaten in several bites. Brined fish or shellfish can be added, and freshly ground dried chili peppers are often used.

Baechu kimchi is prepared by inserting blended stuffing materials, called sok (literally inside), between layers of salted leaves of uncut, whole Napa cabbage. The ingredients of sok (속) can vary, depending on the regions and weather conditions. Generally, baechu kimchi used to have a strong salty flavor until the late 1960s, before which a large amount of myeolchijeot or saeujeot had been used.

Gogumasoon Kimchi is made from sweet potato stems.

Traditionally, the greatest varieties of kimchi were available during the winter. In preparation for the long winter months, many types of kimjang kimchi (김장 김치) were prepared in early winter and stored in the ground in large kimchi pots. Today, many city residents use modern kimchi refrigerators offering precise temperature controls to store kimjang kimchi. November and December are traditionally when people begin to make kimchi; women often gather together in each other's homes to help with winter kimchi preparations. "Baechu kimchi" is made with salted baechu filled with thin strips of radish, parsley, pine nuts, pears, chestnuts, shredded red pepper, manna lichen (Korean: 석이 버섯; RR: seogi beoseot), garlic, and ginger.

Korean preference

As of 2004, the preference of kimchi preparation in Korean households from the most prepared type of kimchi to less prepared types of kimchi was: baechu kimchi, being the most prepared type of kimchi, then kkakdugi, then dongchimi and then chonggak kimchi. Baechu kimchi comprised more than seventy percent of marketed kimchi and radish kimchi comprised about twenty percent of marketed kimchi.

Nutrition

Kimchi is made of various vegetables and contains a high concentration of dietary fiber, while being low in food energy. The vegetables used in kimchi also contribute to intake of vitamin A, thiamine (B1), riboflavin (B2), calcium, and iron.

A 2003 article said that South Koreans consume 18kg (40lbs) of kimchi per person annually. Many credit the Korean Miracle in part to the popularity of the dish. Adult Koreans eat from 50 grams (0.11 lb) to 200 grams (0.44 lb) of kimchi a day.

South Korea spent around $129 million in 2017 to purchase 275,000 metric tons of foreign kimchi, more than 11 times the amount it exported, according to data released by the Korea Customs Service in 2017. South Korea consumes 1.85 million metric tons of kimchi annually, or 36.1 kg per person. It imports a significant fraction of that, mostly from China, and runs a $47.3 million kimchi trade deficit.

Consumption

In 2021, Koreans collectively consumed 1,965,000 tons of Kimchi, with average Korean consuming 88.3 grams of Kimchi daily. This average has been steadily declining from 109.9 grams per day in 2010, marking a 19.6% decrease. Males tend to consume more Kimchi than females, with an average of 106.6 grams compared to 70.0 grams.

Food regulations

The Canadian Food Inspection Agency has regulations for the commercial production of kimchi. The final product should have a pH ranging from 4.2 to 4.5. Any low-acidity ingredients with a pH above 4.6, including white daikon and napa cabbage, should not be left under conditions that enable the growth of undesirable microorganisms and require a written illustration of the procedure designed to ensure this is available if requested. This procedural design should include steps that maintain sterility of the equipment and products used, and the details of all sterilization processes. The cutoff pH of 4.6 is a value common to many food safety regulations, initially defined because botulism toxin is not produced below this level.

Gallery

Preparation for making kimchi

Seokryu kimchi named after its pomegranate-like shape

Jang kimchi, pickled with soy sauce

Displayed manufactured kimchi

Oi-sobagi (cucumber kimchi)

Homemade green kimchi, made with bok choy with a green onion and garlic scape-based chili paste

See also

World Institute of Kimchi – South Korean food R&D organization

Foods containing tyramine – Chemical compoundPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets

Jangajji – Korean pickled vegetable dish

Jeotgal – Korean salted seafood category

Kimchi burger

Korean radish – Variety of edible white radish

Korean brining salt – Coarse salt

Morkovcha – Koryo-saram spicy marinated carrot dish – a variety of kimchi made of carrots by Koryo-saram

List of cabbage dishes

List of English words of Korean origin

List of pickled foods

Pao cai – Pickle in Chinese, and particularly Sichuan cuisine.

Sauerkraut – Finely sliced and fermented cabbage

Torshi, also known as Tursu – Middle Eastern and Balkan pickled vegetables

References

^ a b c "Kimchi". Encyclopædia Britannica. 1 October 2008. Archived from the original on 13 July 2022. Retrieved 23 March 2017.

^ a b c d e Chin, Mei (14 October 2009). "The Art of Kimchi". Saveur. Archived from the original on 25 March 2022. Retrieved 9 August 2010.

^ Hongu, Nobuko; Kim, Angela S.; Suzuki, Asuka; Wilson, Hope; Tsui, Karen C.; Park, Sunmin (September 2017). "Korean kimchi: promoting healthy meals through cultural tradition". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 4 (3): 172–180. doi:10.1016/j.jef.2017.08.005. ISSN 2352-6181.

^ Jang, Dai-Ja; Chung, Kyung Rhan; Yang, Hye Jeong; Kim, Kang-sung; Kwon, Dae Young (September 2015). "Discussion on the origin of kimchi, representative of Korean unique fermented vegetables". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 2 (3): 126–136. doi:10.1016/j.jef.2015.08.005. ISSN 2352-6181.

^ 이, 태영 (23 May 2006). "[고장말탐험] '김치'와 '지'". The Hankyoreh (in Korean). Archived from the original on 27 March 2017. Retrieved 27 March 2017.

^ Hong, Giok (2016). "Study on the Lexicon Related to Gimchi -Based on Survey of Ethnic Living Words in 2008-". The Journal of Korean Dialectology (24): 61–99. doi:10.19069/kordialect.2016.24.061.

^ Uichim; Jo, Wi; Yu, Yungyeom; Yu, Hyubok; et al., eds. (1632) [1481]. Bullyu Du Gongbu si Eonhae 분류두공부시언해(分類杜工部詩諺解) [Poems by Du Fu, Korean Translation]. Vol. 3 (reprint ed.). Joseon Korea. 長安앳 겨ᄋᆞᆳ 디히ᄂᆞᆫ 싀오 ᄯᅩ ᄑᆞᄅᆞ고

^ Garye Eonhae 가례언해(家禮諺解) [Vernacular Edition of the Chia-li]. Vol. 10. Translated by Sin, Sik. Joseon Korea. 1632. 豆ᄂᆞᆫ 디히 젓 담ᄂᆞᆫ 목긔라 (from the original Jiālǐ 家禮 by Zhu Xi)

^ "jjanji" 짠지. Standard Korean Language Dictionary (in Korean). National Institute of Korean Language. Archived from the original on 27 March 2017. Retrieved 27 March 2017.

^ "seokbak-ji" 섞박지. Standard Korean Language Dictionary (in Korean). National Institute of Korean Language. Archived from the original on 27 March 2017. Retrieved 27 March 2017.

^ "ji" 지. Standard Korean Language Dictionary (in Korean). National Institute of Korean Language. Archived from the original on 29 September 2018. Retrieved 27 March 2017.

^ "seobeok-di" 서벅디. Standard Korean Language Dictionary (in Korean). National Institute of Korean Language. Archived from the original on 5 May 2018. Retrieved 27 March 2017.

^ Jeong, Gu; et al. (1586). Sohak Eonhae 소학언해(小學諺解) [Vernacular Rendition of the Elementary Learning] (in Korean). Joseon Korea – via Wikisource.

^ Zhū, Xǐ; Liú, Qīngzhī. Xiǎoxué 小學 [Elementary Learning] (in Chinese). Song China – via Wikisource.

^ a b "Kimchi" 김치 [kimchi]. Standard Korean Language Dictionary (in Korean). National Institute of Korean Language. Archived from the original on 29 September 2018. Retrieved 24 March 2017.

^ "jimchae" 짐채. Standard Korean Language Dictionary (in Korean). National Institute of Korean Language. Archived from the original on 27 March 2017. Retrieved 27 March 2017.

^ "jimchi" 짐치. Standard Korean Language Dictionary (in Korean). National Institute of Korean Language. Archived from the original on 27 March 2017. Retrieved 27 March 2017.

^ "dimchi" 딤치. Standard Korean Language Dictionary (in Korean). National Institute of Korean Language. Archived from the original on 28 March 2017. Retrieved 27 March 2017.

^ a b c d Hui, Y. H.; Ghazala, Sue; Graham, Dee M.; Murrell, K. D.; Nip, Wai-Kit, eds. (2004). Handbook of Vegetable Preservation and Processing. New York: Marcel Dekker. pp. 190–191. ISBN 978-0-8247-4301-7. Archived from the original on 17 March 2024. Retrieved 2 September 2017.

^ Pusik, Kim (1145). Samguk Sagi 삼국사기(三國史記) [History of the Three Kingdoms] (in Korean). Goryeo Korea – via Wikisource.

^ Park, Kun-Young; Cheigh, Hong-Sik (2003). "Kimchi". Handbook of Vegetable Preservation and Processing. CRC Press. p. 190.

^ a b c Logarta, Margie T. (September 2013). "In A Pickle". Business Traveller (Asia-Pacific Edition): 70–73. Archived from the original on 7 September 2018. Retrieved 7 September 2018.

^ Pettid, Michael J. (2008). Korean Cuisine: An Illustrated History. London: Reaktion Books. pp. 47–51. ISBN 978-1-86189-348-2. Archived from the original on 24 July 2023. Retrieved 2 September 2017.

^ Yi, Gyubo (1241). "Gapoyugyeong" 가포육영(家圃六詠). DonggukIsanggukjip 동국이상국집(東國李相國集) [Collected works of Minister Yi of the Eastern Country] (in Literary Chinese). Goryeo Korea. Archived from the original on 26 March 2017. Retrieved 26 March 2017 – via DB of Korean classics by ITKC.

^ Breidt, Fred; McFeeters, Roger F.; Pérez-Díaz, Ilenys; Lee, Cherl-Ho (2013). "Fermented Vegetables" (PDF). In Doyle, Michael P.; Buchanan, Robert L. (eds.). Food Microbiology: Fundamentals and Frontiers (4th ed.). Washington, D.C.: American Society for Microbiology. p. 841. doi:10.1128/9781555818463.ch33. ISBN 978-1-55581-626-1. Archived (PDF) from the original on 28 May 2015. Retrieved 26 March 2017.

^ Kimchi. (2016). Funk & Wagnalls New World Encyclopedia, 1p. 1.

^ a b Guide to Korean Culture: Korea's cultural heritage (2015 ed.). Seoul: Korean Culture and Information Service, Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism. 2015 [1995]. pp. 131–133. ISBN 978-89-7375-571-4.

^ Lee, Dahyeon (8 January 2008). "고추, 마라, 핫소스...'매운맛 문화권'의 확장과 타락 (Red pepper, mara, hot sauce... Expansion and deterioration of the "spicy taste culture")". shindonga.donga.com 신동아 (in Korean). The Dong-a Ilbo. Archived from the original on 18 April 2021. Retrieved 18 April 2021.

^ Park, Jae Bok (Spring 1999). "Red Pepper and Kichi in Korea" (PDF). Chile Pepper Institute Newsletter. Vol. 8, no. 1. p. 3. Archived from the original (PDF) on 7 October 2018. Retrieved 20 March 2017.

^ Marianski, Stanley; Marianski, Adam (2012). Sauerkraut, Kimchi, Pickles & Relishes. Seminole, FL: Bookmagic. p. 45. ISBN 978-0-9836973-2-9.

^ Yi, Sugwang. Jibong yuseol 지봉유설(芝峯類說) [Topical Discourses of Jibong] (in Korean). Joseon Korea – via Wikisource.

^ Hong, Manseon. Sallim gyeongje 산림경제(山林經濟) [Farm Management] (in Literary Chinese). Joseon Korea. Archived from the original on 28 March 2017. Retrieved 17 February 2020 – via DB of Korean classics by ITKC.

^ a b Cho, Hong Sik (2006). "Food and Nationalism: Kimchi and Korean National Identity". The Korean Journal of International Studies. 4 (1): 207–229. doi:10.14731/kjis.2006.12.46.5.207.

^ Jeong, Hakyu. "Siwol" 시월(十月) [Tenth month]. Nongga wollyeongga 농가월령가(農家月令歌) [The Songs of Monthly Events of Farm Families]. Archived from the original on 28 March 2017. Retrieved 27 March 2017.

^ Hong, Seokmo. Dongguksesigi 동국세시기(東國歲時記) [A Record of the Seasonal Customs of the Eastern Kingdom]. Joseon Korea.

^ Yu, Jungrim; Hong, Manseon (1766). Jeungbo sallim gyeongje 증보산림경제(增補山林經濟) [Revised and Augmented Farm Management]. Joseon Korea.

^ Unknown (1919) [late 19th century]. Siuijeonseo (in Korean). Manuscript by Sim Hwanjin. Sangju, Korea.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) 시의전서 是議全書. Hansik Archive (in Korean). Archived from the original on 12 March 2017.

시의전서 是議全書. Hansik Archive (in Korean). Archived from the original on 12 March 2017.

^ a b Choe, Sang-hun (24 February 2008). "Starship Kimchi: A Bold Taste Goes Where It Has Never Gone Before". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 17 March 2012. Retrieved 27 August 2012.

^ a b King, Michelle (2019), "Introduction: Culinary Nationalism in Asia", Culinary Nationalism in Asia, Bloomsbury Publishing Plc, pp. 1–20, doi:10.5040/9781350078703.0008, ISBN 978-1-350-07870-3, S2CID 201328713{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link)

^ "History of Kimchi, the Korean soul food. Kimchi fun facts we BAECHU didn't know". Hyphe-Nated. Archived from the original on 9 September 2021. Retrieved 9 September 2021.

^ Kim, Eleana J. (2013). Adoptees and the Politics of Belonging. The Korea Society. Event occurs at 26:56–28:09. Archived from the original on 6 April 2017. Retrieved 2 January 2023 – via YouTube. Another aspect of the Korean adoptee experience that I explore in my book is their relationship to South Korea, and the South Korean state and one of the things that the South Korean government was, in a way, compelled, to do, in the late 1990s was to recognize adoptees, overseas adoptees, as Koreans, in some way. So by 1998, adult Korean adoptees who were living in Korea petitioned the South Korean state to recognize them as overseas Koreans, Hanguggye dongpo, so that meant that they would be eligible for a special visa status that would allow them to return to South Korea for extended periods of time, and, in line with this, this is an image from the Overseas Korean Foundation summer cultural program for overseas adoptees, and so, they developed these programs to help adult adoptees return to Korea and learn something about what it means to be Korean. So these programs are typically focused on traditional Korean culture adoptees dressing up in hanbok and learning how to make kimchi, such as these images here.

^ a b Magnier, Mark (17 June 2003). "In an Age of SARS, Koreans Tout Kimchi Cure". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on 27 February 2010. Retrieved 7 May 2010.

^ Sims, Calvin (5 February 2000). "Cabbage Is Cabbage? Not to Kimchi Lovers; Koreans Take Issue With a Rendition Of Their National Dish Made in Japan". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 14 January 2021. Retrieved 2 January 2023.

^ "Codex standard for kimchi" (PDF). The Codex Alimentarius Commission. Archived from the original (PDF) on 12 December 2005.

^ a b "Of cabbages and Kims". The Economist. 7 October 2010. Archived from the original on 17 March 2024. Retrieved 28 June 2016.

^ a b McDonald, Mark (14 October 2010). "Rising Cost of Kimchi Alarms Koreans". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 26 October 2010. Retrieved 16 October 2010.

^ a b "UNESCO Adds N. Korea's Kimchi-Making to Cultural Heritage List". KBS. 3 December 2015. Archived from the original on 14 April 2021. Retrieved 3 December 2015.

^ "Kimjang, making and sharing kimchi in the Republic of Korea". UNESCO Intangible Heritage. 2013. Archived from the original on 5 February 2021. Retrieved 20 November 2023.

^ "Tradition of kimchi-making in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea". Culture Sector – UNESCO. Archived from the original on 23 February 2017. Retrieved 3 December 2015.

^ North Koreans Want UNESCO Recognition for Their Kimchi Variation. YouTube. Voice of America. 2 December 2015. Event occurs at 1:10. Archived from the original on 22 March 2016. Retrieved 3 December 2015.

^ Jeong, Sophie (2 November 2018). "North Korea's latest peace offering: Kimchi". CNN. Archived from the original on 2 November 2018. Retrieved 26 April 2020.

^ "Spicy celebration: Nov. 22 marks Kimchi Day in Maryland". CBS News. 22 November 2022. Archived from the original on 22 November 2022. Retrieved 23 November 2022.

^ "Maryland Governor Designates Nov. 22 as 'Kimchi Day'". KBS World. 22 November 2022. Archived from the original on 22 November 2022. Retrieved 23 November 2022.

^ a b Lee Gyeongju (이경주); Kim Yangjin (김양진) (20 July 2013). 對중국 수출 '0'... 한국 김치가 운다. seoul.co.kr (in Korean). Archived from the original on 24 September 2015. Retrieved 27 December 2014.

^ Choe Mansu (최만수) (15 January 2014). 수입만 하고 수출 못하는 韓·中 '김치무역' 바꿀 것. hankyung.com (in Korean). Archived from the original on 24 September 2015.

^ Hernández, Javier C.; Guo, Owen; Mcmorrow, Ryan (9 March 2017). "South Korean Stores Feel China's Wrath as U.S. Missile System Is Deployed". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on 27 May 2022. Retrieved 2 January 2023.

^ Lankov, Andrei (3 June 2013). "The 'third Korea' Yanbian in decline". The Asian. Archived from the original on 1 February 2021. Retrieved 3 October 2021.

^ "ISO 24220:2020". International Organization for Standardization. 2020. Archived from the original on 25 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.

^ "Kimchi ferments cultural feud between South Korea and China". BBC News. 30 November 2020. Archived from the original on 18 January 2021. Retrieved 20 January 2021.

^ "South Korea refutes China's claim on industrial standard for kimchi". The Korea Times. Yonhap. 30 November 2020. Archived from the original on 29 January 2021. Retrieved 23 January 2021.Park Ji-won (2 December 2020). "Kimchi controversy: China's cultural provocation". The Korea Times. Archived from the original on 30 January 2021. Retrieved 23 January 2021.Park Chan-kyong (20 January 2021). "Kimchi wars: South Korean academic takes spat with China to new level with tart ad in New York Times". South China Morning Post. Archived from the original on 15 February 2021. Retrieved 20 January 2021.Park Han-sol (20 January 2021). "Academic activist puts kimchi ad in NYT". The Korea Times. Archived from the original on 20 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021."Koreans defend kimchi, ssam against China". The Korea Herald. 20 January 2021. Archived from the original on 2 February 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.Youmi Kim; Mike Ives (1 December 2020). "Is China Laying Claim to Kimchi, Too? Some South Koreans Think So". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 17 February 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.Julian Ryall (3 December 2020). "Kimchi: Koreans angry over attempted Chinese takeover". Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 3 December 2020. Retrieved 21 January 2021.

"South Korea refutes China's claim on industrial standard for kimchi". The Korea Times. Yonhap. 30 November 2020. Archived from the original on 29 January 2021. Retrieved 23 January 2021.

Park Ji-won (2 December 2020). "Kimchi controversy: China's cultural provocation". The Korea Times. Archived from the original on 30 January 2021. Retrieved 23 January 2021.

Park Chan-kyong (20 January 2021). "Kimchi wars: South Korean academic takes spat with China to new level with tart ad in New York Times". South China Morning Post. Archived from the original on 15 February 2021. Retrieved 20 January 2021.

Park Han-sol (20 January 2021). "Academic activist puts kimchi ad in NYT". The Korea Times. Archived from the original on 20 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.

"Koreans defend kimchi, ssam against China". The Korea Herald. 20 January 2021. Archived from the original on 2 February 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.

Youmi Kim; Mike Ives (1 December 2020). "Is China Laying Claim to Kimchi, Too? Some South Koreans Think So". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 17 February 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.

Julian Ryall (3 December 2020). "Kimchi: Koreans angry over attempted Chinese takeover". Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 3 December 2020. Retrieved 21 January 2021.

^ Justin McCurry (1 December 2020). "'Stealing our culture': South Koreans upset after China claims kimchi as its own". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 17 January 2021. Retrieved 20 January 2021.

^ "Translation Matters! Cultural War Between China and South Korea Over 'Kimichi' and 'Pao Cai' Turns Out to Be Misunderstanding". LatestLY. 8 December 2020. Archived from the original on 8 July 2023. Retrieved 8 July 2023.

^ a b c Seol Lee (10 December 2020). "Kimchi and paocai are two different foods,' Chinese state media says". The Dong-a Ilbo. Archived from the original on 8 October 2021. Retrieved 8 October 2021.

^ Wee Kei Koon (30 May 2022). "How China could have avoided the 'kimchi war' with South Korea". South China Morning Post. Archived from the original on 8 July 2023. Retrieved 8 July 2023.

^ "How kimchi rekindled a decades-long feud". BBC Travel. 17 December 2020. Archived from the original on 8 July 2023. Retrieved 8 July 2023.

^ "Culture Ministry amends translation guidelines for kimchi". The Korea Herald. 23 July 2021. Archived from the original on 7 October 2021. Retrieved 8 October 2021.

^ Wong, Maggie Hiufu (20 August 2021). "Kimchi's new Chinese name has become the epicenter of a cultural war ... again". CNN. Archived from the original on 8 July 2023. Retrieved 8 July 2023.

^ "Kimchi, sikhae" 김치, 식해. Ch'osŏn Ryori (in Korean (North Korea)). Korean Association of Cooks. Archived from the original on 15 June 2020. Retrieved 10 April 2017.

^ Lee, Mi-Ai; et al. (November 2022). "Effects of salt type on the metabolites and microbial community in kimchi fermentation". Heliyon. 8 (11) e11360. Bibcode:2022Heliy...811360L. doi:10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e11360. PMC 9663873. PMID 36387467.

^ a b c d "kimchi" 김치. Doopedia. Doosan Corporation. Archived from the original on 7 October 2018. Retrieved 10 April 2017.

^ "Understanding and Making Kimchi". Farm to Table. Colorado State University. Archived from the original on 25 February 2021. Retrieved 22 February 2021.

^ "Understanding and Making Kimchi". Colorado Farm to Table Food Safety. Archived from the original on 25 February 2021. Retrieved 22 February 2021.

^ Paramithiotis, Spiros; Papoutsis, George; Drosinos, Eleftherios H. (2017). Paramithiotis, Spiros (ed.). Lactic Acid Fermentation of Fruits and Vegetables. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press. p. 5. ISBN 978-1-4987-2690-0.

^ Lee, Jung-Sook; Heo, Gun-Young; Lee, Jun Won; Oh, Yun-Jung; Park, Jeong A.; Park, Yong-Ha; Pyun, Yu-Ryang; Ahn, Jong Seog (2005). "Analysis of kimchi microflora using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis". International Journal of Food Microbiology. 102 (2): 143–150. doi:10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2004.12.010. PMID 15992614.

^ Cho, Jinhee; Lee, Dongyun; Yang, Changnam; Jeon, Jongin; Kim, Jeongho; Han, Hongui (2006). "Microbial population dynamics of kimchi, a fermented cabbage product". FEMS Microbiology Letters. 257 (2): 262–267. Bibcode:2006FEMML.257..262C. doi:10.1111/j.1574-6968.2006.00186.x. PMID 16553862.

^ Chang, H.; Kim, K.; Nam, Y.; Roh, S.; Kim, M.; Jeon, C.; Oh, H.; Bae, J. (2008). "Analysis of yeast and archaeal population dynamics in kimchi using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis". International Journal of Food Microbiology. 126 (1–2): 159–166. doi:10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2008.05.013. PMID 18562030.

^ Jung, Ji Young; Lee, Se Hee; Jin, Hyun Mi; Hahn, Yoonsoo; Madsen, Eugene L.; Jeon, Che Ok (2013). "Metatranscriptomic analysis of lactic acid bacterial gene expression during kimchi fermentation". International Journal of Food Microbiology. 163 (2–3): 171–179. doi:10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2013.02.022. PMID 23558201.

^ Jeong, Sang Hyeon; Lee, Se Hee; Jung, Ji Young; Choi, Eun Jin; Jeon, Che Ok (2013). "Microbial Succession and Metabolite Changes during Long-Term Storage of Kimchi". Journal of Food Science. 78 (5): M763–M769. doi:10.1111/1750-3841.12095. PMID 23550842.

^ Jeong, Sang Hyeon; Jung, Ji Young; Lee, Se Hee; Jin, Hyun Mi; Jeon, Che Ok (2013). "Microbial succession and metabolite changes during fermentation of dongchimi, traditional Korean watery kimchi". International Journal of Food Microbiology. 164 (1): 46–53. doi:10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2013.03.016. PMID 23587713.

^ Hong, Yeun; Yang, H. S.; Chang, H. C.; Kim, H. Y. (2013). "Comparison of Bacterial Community Changes in Fermenting Kimchi at Two Different Temperatures Using a Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis Analysis" (PDF). Journal of Microbiology and Biotechnology. 23 (1): 76–84. doi:10.4014/jmb.1210.10002. PMID 23314371. S2CID 13462137. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 February 2019.

^ a b c d e f g Jung, Ji Young; Lee, Se Hee; Jeon, Che Ok (14 January 2014). "Kimchi microflora: history, current status, and perspectives for industrial kimchi production". Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology. 98 (6): 2385–2393. doi:10.1007/s00253-014-5513-1. ISSN 0175-7598. PMID 24419800. S2CID 13085302.

^ Chang, HW; Kim, KH; Nam, YD; Roh, SW; Kim, MS; Jeon, CO; Oh, HM; Bae, JW (15 August 2008). "Analysis of yeast and archaeal population dynamics in kimchi using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis". International Journal of Food Microbiology. 126 (1–2): 159–66. doi:10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2008.05.013. PMID 18562030.

^ Kim, JY; Kim, J; Cha, IT; Jung, MY; Song, HS; Kim, YB; Lee, C; Kang, SY; Bae, JW; Choi, YE; Kim, TW; Roh, SW (January 2019). "Community structures and genomic features of undesirable white colony-forming yeasts on fermented vegetables". Journal of Microbiology (Seoul, Korea). 57 (1): 30–37. doi:10.1007/s12275-019-8487-y. PMID 30392155. S2CID 53219410.

^ a b c d e Lee, Mo-Eun; Jang, Ja-Young; Lee, Jong-Hee; Park, Hae-Woong; Choi, Hak-Jong; Kim, Tae-Woon (28 May 2015). "Starter Cultures for Kimchi Fermentation". Journal of Microbiology and Biotechnology. 25 (5): 559–568. doi:10.4014/jmb.1501.01019. ISSN 1017-7825. PMID 25674806.

^ a b c d e Foods, National Research Council (US) Panel on the Applications of Biotechnology to Traditional Fermented (1992). Lactic Acid Fermentations. National Academies Press (US). Archived from the original on 1 April 2015. Retrieved 8 August 2019.

^ Park, Kun-Young; Jeong, Ji-Kang; Lee, Young-Eun; Daily, James W. (January 2014). "Health Benefits of Kimchi (Korean Fermented Vegetables) as a Probiotic Food". Journal of Medicinal Food. 17 (1): 6–20. doi:10.1089/jmf.2013.3083. ISSN 1096-620X. PMID 24456350.

^ a b Jung, Ji Young; Lee, Se Hee; Kim, Jeong Myeong; Park, Moon Su; Bae, Jin-Woo; Hahn, Yoonsoo; Madsen, Eugene L.; Jeon, Che Ok (1 April 2011). "Metagenomic Analysis of Kimchi, a Traditional Korean Fermented Food". Applied and Environmental Microbiology. 77 (7): 2264–2274. Bibcode:2011ApEnM..77.2264J. doi:10.1128/AEM.02157-10. ISSN 0099-2240. PMC 3067442. PMID 21317261.

^ Fifield, Anna (22 June 2017). "To promote kimchi abroad, Korean scientists are trying to get rid of the smell". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on 29 March 2021. Retrieved 16 November 2021.

^ Herreria Russo, Carla (29 June 2017). "Korean Scientists Are Making Kimchi Less Smelly For Westerners, And People Are Pissed". HuffPost. Archived from the original on 16 November 2021. Retrieved 16 November 2021.

^ Jang, Dai Ja; Lee, Ae Ja; Kang, Soon-A; Lee, Seung Min; Kwon, Dae Young (2016). "Does siwonhan-mat represent delicious in Korean foods?". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 3 (2): 159–162. doi:10.1016/j.jef.2016.06.002.

^ Korean Tourism Organization. (2015). Kimchi.

^ di Schino, June (2011). "Kimchi: Ferment at the Heart of Korean Cuisine, from Local Identity to Global Consumption". In Saberi, Helen (ed.). Cured, Smoked, and Fermented: Proceedings of the Oxford Symposium on Food and Cookery 2010. Devon, UK: Prospect Books. p. 82. ISBN 978-1-903018-85-9.

^ Kimchi. (2016). Funk & Wagnall's New World Encyclopedia, 1p. 1.

^ a b Chung, Hae-Kyung; Shin, Dayeon; Chung, Kyung Rhan; Choi, Soe Yeon; Woo, Nariyah (2017). "Recovering the royal cuisine in Chosun Dynasty and its esthetics". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 4 (4): 242–253. doi:10.1016/j.jef.2017.12.001.

^ a b "Kimchi." Yahoo Korean Encyclopedia Archived 24 January 2009 at the Wayback Machine

^ "Kimchi". english.visitkorea.or.kr. Archived from the original on 18 January 2020. Retrieved 1 April 2015.

^ "North Texas Traditional Living" (PDF). Making Kimchi. Archived (PDF) from the original on 24 March 2012. Retrieved 14 February 2011.

^ "TreeLight". Ultimate Kimchi. Archived from the original on 24 December 2010. Retrieved 14 February 2011.

^ "High-tech kimchi refrigerators keep Korea's favorite food crisp". Hong Kong Trade Development Council. 14 March 2002. Archived from the original on 29 January 2008. Retrieved 14 February 2008.

^ Hui, Y. H.; Ghazala, Sue; Graham, Dee M.; Murrell, K. D.; Nip, Wai-Kit, eds. (12 September 2003). Handbook of Vegetable Preservation and Processing. CRC Press. pp. 190–191. ISBN 978-0-203-91291-1.

^ "Kimchi by Nancy Berkoff, RD, EdD, CCE". Archived from the original on 19 October 2014. Retrieved 13 September 2014.

^ "Food in Korea". Asianinfo.com. Archived from the original on 19 February 2012. Retrieved 30 January 2007.

^ "Kimchi". Tour2korea.com. Archived from the original on 30 September 2012. Retrieved 30 January 2007.

^ Korea Food Research Institute

^ Park, Kim-Young; Cheigh, Hong-Sik (2004). "35. Kimchi". In Hui, Y. H.; Meunier-Goddik, Lisbeth; Josephsen, Jytte; Nip, Wai-Kit; Stanfield, Peggy S. (eds.). Handbook of Food and Beverage Fermentation Technology. Food Science and Technology. Vol. 134. CRC Press. pp. 714–754. ISBN 978-0-8247-5122-7. Archived from the original on 2 January 2023. Retrieved 2 January 2023.

^ a b c Tamang, Jyoti Prakash (2015). Health Benefits of Fermented Foods and Beverages. CRC Press. pp. 344, 350–351. ISBN 978-1-4665-8810-3. Archived from the original on 2 January 2023. Retrieved 2 January 2023.

^ a b Huang, Echo (19 January 2018). "The kimchi you eat outside of Korea is probably made in China". Quartz. Archived from the original on 19 January 2018. Retrieved 19 January 2018.

^ "Half of kimchi served at South Korean restaurants from China: Institute". The Jakarta Post. 6 October 2017. Archived from the original on 17 June 2020. Retrieved 10 May 2020.

^ "수출입통계 – 품목별 수출입실적" [Import and export statistics – 품목별 수출입실적 (Import and export performance by item): Item code=20 05 99 1000]. Korea Customs Service. Archived from the original on 22 January 2021. Retrieved 15 February 2021.

^ "Document Viewer". www.wikim.re.kr. Archived from the original on 4 October 2023. Retrieved 2 October 2023.

^ a b c "Chapter 5 - Process Products". Processed Products Establishment Inspection Manual. Canadian Food Inspection Agency. 30 August 2012. Archived from the original on 30 January 2019. Retrieved 8 August 2019.

^ Clark, J. Peter (2014). "The Basics About Acid Levels in Food". Food Technology Magazine. Institute of Food Technology. Archived from the original on 22 November 2022. Retrieved 22 November 2022.

Further reading

Park, Kun-Young; Cheigh, Hong-Sik (2003). Handbook of Vegetable Preservation and Processing. CRC Press. pp. 189–222. ISBN 978-0-8247-4301-7. Retrieved 18 May 2008.

Gannon, Martin J. (2004). Understanding Global Cultures. SAGE Publications. pp. 123–130. ISBN 978-0-7619-2980-2. Retrieved 18 May 2008. kimchi.

Park, Sung Hoon; Lee, Chang Hyeon (2023). "Evaluation of Accuracy and Adequacy of Kimchi Information in Major Foreign Online Encyclopedias". Journal of the Korean Society of Food Culture (in Korean). 38 (4): 203–216. doi:10.7318/KJFC/2023.38.4.203. ISSN 1225-7060.

Kimchi

Baechu-kimchi

Baek-kimchi

Dongchimi

Dubu-kimchi

Gat-kimchi

Kkakdugi

Morkovcha

Nabak-kimchi

Pa-kimchi

Yeolmu-kimchi

Gimjang

Kimchi-buchimgae

Kimchi Field Museum

Kimchi fried rice

Kimchi refrigerator

Companilactobacillus kimchii

Bibimbap

Gimbap

Hoe-deopbap

Nurungji

Ogok-bap

Patbap

Kongbap

Bokkeum-bap

Jumeok-bap

Yaksik

Ssambap

Gukbap

Bulgogi

Galbi Dak-galbi

Dak-galbi

Samgyeopsal

Makchang

Galbijjim

Andong jjimdak

Gyeran-jjim

Agwi-jjim

Sannakji

Yukhoe

Sukhoe

Ganghoe

Kongnamul

Chwinamul

Jangajji

Saengchae

Golbaengi-muchim

Japchae

Pajeon

Kimchi-buchimgae

Bindae-tteok

Aehobakbuchimgae

Myeolchi

Ojingeo

Hanchi

Myeongnan

Gejang

Tteokguk

Haejang-guk

Miyeok-guk

Mandu-guk

Yukgaejang

Gukbap Gul-gukbap Dwaeji-gukbap

Gul-gukbap

Dwaeji-gukbap

Dak-hanmari

Seonjit-guk

Tang Bosintang Chueotang Dak-bokkeum-tang Galbitang Gamjatang Maeuntang Oritang Samgyetang Seolleongtang Yeonpo-tang

Bosintang

Chueotang

Dak-bokkeum-tang

Galbitang

Gamjatang

Maeuntang

Oritang

Samgyetang

Seolleongtang

Yeonpo-tang

Jijimi

Jjigae Doenjang-jjigae Cheonggukjang-jjigae Kimchi-jjigae Sundubu-jjigae Saeujeot-jjigae Budae-jjigae

Doenjang-jjigae

Cheonggukjang-jjigae

Kimchi-jjigae

Sundubu-jjigae

Saeujeot-jjigae

Budae-jjigae

Sinseollo

Jeongol Gopchang jeongol

Gopchang jeongol

Gamja-ongsimi

Naengmyeon

Milmyeon

Jjolmyeon

Japchae

Jajangmyeon

Jjamppong

Bibim-guksu

Sujebi

Janchi-guksu

Kal-guksu

Mak-guksu

Jat-guksu

Kong-guksu

Ramyeon

Jjapaguri

Gogi-guksu

Garak-guksu

Baechu-kimchi

Baek-kimchi

Dongchimi

Nabak-kimchi

Kkakdugi

Pa-kimchi

Yeolmu-kimchi

Gat-kimchi

Geotjeori

Tteokbokki

Sundae

Myeongtae

Korean Fried Chicken

Buldak

Hotteok

Jjinppang

Hoppang

Beondegi

Bungeoppang

Gyeranppang

Hangwa

Tteok Chapssaltteok Songpyeon Yaksik

Chapssaltteok

Songpyeon

Yaksik

Mandu Kimchi mandu Eo-mandu

Kimchi mandu

Eo-mandu

Bokkeum

Anju Jokbal Jokpyeon Pyeonyuk

Jokbal

Jokpyeon

Pyeonyuk

Makgeolli

Cheongju

Dansul

Baekse-ju

Green tea

Insam-cha

Saenggang-cha

Sujeonggwa

Sikhye

Yuja-cha

Bori-cha

Oksusu-cha

Hyeonmi-cha

Sungnyung

Yulmu-cha

Misutgaru

Ambasa

Dalgona coffee

Hangover drinks

Sikhye

Hwachae

Sujeonggwa

Sinseollo

Gujeolpan

Jangguk-juk

Jatjuk

Jeho-tang

Neobiani

Onjium

Baesuk

Tangpyeong-chae

Tarak-juk

Tteok-galbi

Wolgwa-chae

Yuja-hwachae

Jjinppang

Hoppang

Hotteok

Bungeoppang

Gukhwa-ppang

Gyeranppang

Soboro-ppang

Soy sauce Soup soy sauce

Soup soy sauce

Persimmon vinegar

Rice vinegar

Doenjang

Gochujang

Ssamjang

Cheong

Dishes Jeju dishes Seoul dishes

Jeju dishes

Seoul dishes

Ingredients

Bunsik

Beer in South Korea

Street food in South Korea

List of oldest restaurants in South Korea

Category

Emblem

Anthem

Pyongyang (capital)

Magnolia sieboldii (flower)

Oriental magpie (bird)

Pine (tree)

Pungsan (dog)

Kimchi (dish)

Choson-ot (dress)

Ssirum (sport)

Juche Tower and Mangyongdae (monuments)

Juche calendar

Foundation Day

Cho Ki-chon (poet)

Chollima

Korean language Munhwaŏ

Munhwaŏ

North Korean won (currency)

United States

Czech Republic

Israel

Yale LUX

# Doenjang


Media: Doenjang

Bap Bibimbap Bokkeum-bap Gukbap

Bibimbap

Bokkeum-bap

Gukbap

Juk Mieum

Guksu Naengmyeon

Naengmyeon

Jangajji

Jeotgal

Kimchi Baek-kimchi Dongchimi Kkakdugi Nabak-kimchi

Baek-kimchi

Dongchimi

Kkakdugi

Nabak-kimchi

Soups and stews

Jeongol

Jijimi

Jjigae

Banchan

Bokkeum

Buchimgae Jeon

Jokpyeon

Pyeonyuk

Gwapyeon

Jeonggwa

Kkultarae

Suksilgwa

Yakbap

Yeotgangjeong

Yugwa Gangjeong Hangwa

Gangjeong

Hangwa

Yumilgwa Mandugwa Taraegwa Yakgwa

Mandugwa

Taraegwa

Yakgwa

Baekseolgi

Bupyeon

Gyeongdan

Injeolmi

Jeolpyeon

Jeungpyeon

Mujigae-tteok

Siru-tteok

Songpyeon

Hwachae

Sikhye

Sul (alcoholic drinks)

Sujeonggwa

Doenjang

Ganjang Gukganjang Eoganjang

Gukganjang

Eoganjang

Gochujang

Cheong

Mustard sauce

Oil Perilla oil Sesame oil

Perilla oil

Sesame oil

Ssamjang

Vinegar Persimmon vinegar Rice vinegar

Persimmon vinegar

Rice vinegar

Dolsot

Ttukbaegi

Gamasot

Kimchi Field Museum

Kimchi refrigerator

List of Korean dishes

North Korean cuisine

Korean regional cuisine

Korean Chinese cuisine

Korean royal court cuisine

Korean barbecue

Doenjang (Korean: 된장; pronounced [tøn.dʑaŋ]; lit. 'thick sauce') or soybean paste is a type of fermented bean paste made of soybean and brine used in Korean cuisine. It is also a byproduct of soup soy sauce production. It is sometimes used as a relish.

History

The Records of the Three Kingdoms, a Chinese historical text written and published in the third century CE, mentions that "Goguryeo people are good at brewing fermented soybeans" in the section named Dongyi (Eastern foreigners) in the Book of Wei. Jangdoks used for doenjang production are found in the mural paintings of Anak Tomb No. 3 from the 4th century Goguryeo.

In the Samguk sagi, a historical record of the Three Kingdoms of Korea, it is written that doenjang and ganjang, along with meju and jeotgal, were prepared for the wedding ceremony of King Sinmun in February 683. Sikhwaji, a section from Goryeosa (History of Goryeo), recorded that doenjang and ganjang were included in the relief supplies in 1018, after a Khitan invasion, and in 1052, when a famine occurred. Joseon texts such as Guhwangchwaryo and Jeungbo sallim gyeongje contain detailed procedures on how to brew good-quality doenjang and ganjang.[citation needed] Gyuhap Chongseo explains how to pick a date for brewing, what to forbear, and how to keep and preserve doenjang and ganjang.

Production

Doenjang is made using fermented soybean and brine. Soup soy sauce is also made during the doenjang production.

Meju, Korean soybean brick, is made around ipdong in early November. Soybeans are soaked overnight, boiled in salt water, and then pounded in a mortar (jeolgu) or coarsely ground in a millstone. About a doe (about 1.8 L (110 cu in)) or two does of pounded soybean is chunked, compressed, and shaped into a cube or a sphere called meju. The meju bricks are then dried in a cool, shaded area for a week to several weeks until firm. When the bricks harden, they are tied with rice straws to the eaves of the house, or put in the warm ondol room with rice straws, for fermentation. In Jeongwol, the first month of the lunar year, well-fermented meju bricks are washed and sun-dried.

After drying, the meju bricks are aged in onggi crocks (jangdok) with brine. Charcoal and chillies are added for their absorbent and antibacterial properties, as well as folk-religious beliefs that they drive evil spirits away. When fermented well, the aged meju chunks are mashed to become doenjang, and the filtrate is boiled to become ganjang.

Though doenjang and ganjang are usually made together, doenjang can also be made without producing any filtrate.

Tojang (토장) – When the aged brine is boiled to become ganjang, the rest (aged meju chunks) are mashed to become tojang.

Jangjae (장재) – Smaller amount of brine is used from the beginning. No soy sauce is produced in the process, and the meju aged with the smaller amount of brine becomes jangjae, another type of doenjang.

While traditional doenjang is made with soybeans and brine only, many factory-made variants of doenjang contain a fair amount of wheat flour just like most factory-made soy sauce does. Some current makers also add fermented, dried, and ground anchovies to accentuate doenjang's savory flavor. Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety's Food Code classifies doenjang into three categories by their ingredients.

Hansik-doenjang (한식된장, "Korean-style fermented soybean paste") – doenjang made with traditional style meju and brine.

Doenjang (된장, "fermented soybean paste") – doenjang made with non-traditional meju (which can be made of soybean, rice, barley, wheat or degreased soybean, and ripened using traditional method or Aspergillus) and saline solution.

Seasoned doenjang (조미된장) – product that contains more than 90% of doenjang or hansik-doenjang.

Doenjang can be eaten as a condiment in raw-paste form with vegetables, as flavored seasoning or even as a dipping condiment. However, it is more commonly mixed with garlic, sesame oil, and sometimes gochujang to produce ssamjang, which is then traditionally eaten with or without rice wrapped in leaf vegetables such as red leaf lettuce. This dish is called ssambap. This combination of leaf vegetable and doenjang (or ssamjang) often complements popular Korean meat dishes such as samgyeopsal, bulgogi, bibimbap and bossam.

It can also be used as a component of soup broth, as in the popular stew doenjang jjigae, which usually includes tofu, various vegetables such as chile peppers, zucchini, and scallion, and (optionally) mushrooms, red meat, or scallops.

Nutrition and health

Doenjang is rich in flavonoids and beneficial vitamins, minerals, and plant hormones (phytoestrogens) which are sometimes claimed to possess anti-carcinogenic properties. In Korean traditional meals, the menu has concentrated on vegetables and rice, but doenjang, which is made of soybeans, has a great deal of lysine, an essential amino acid that rice lacks. Linoleic acid (53% of the fatty acids) and linolenic acid (8% of the fatty acids) have an important role in normal growth of blood vessels and prevention of blood vessel-related illness. Doenjang's efficacy still exists after boiling, in dishes such as doenjang jjigae.

Claims are being explored about the role of doenjang in reducing visceral fat, though most studies have only been done on rodents. However, one study on humans does exist, which suggests that its visceral fat reduction properties are also present in humans.

Outside Korea

Doenjang is considered one of the essential sauces of authentic Korean cuisine. However, the condiment has historically been unknown outside of Korea, although recent international articles have resulted in an increase in its popularity. A 2007 Chinese article on the "Sauces of Korea" listed doenjang and gochujang as essential flavorings, and explored the origins of the condiments, particularly focusing on Sunchang County, where most Korean soy sauce is produced. The article pointed out that doenjang does not contain any artificial additives and in fact has healthy amounts of essential vitamins, such as vitamin C and vitamin B12. The health benefits of doenjang are rumored to extend longevity, and this is illustrated by the fact that out of the 32,000 people in Sunchang County, eight are over 100 years old, and many are over 90. The article was influential throughout China, resulting in many Chinese restaurants adding doenjang jjigae to their menus shortly after publication. South Korea's JoongAng Ilbo covered this story in China on December 13, 2007.

In culture

"Doenjang girl" is a slang term for women who indulge in luxurious products to show off despite not being able to afford them, and eat low-priced basic food at home.

See also

Food portal

Cheonggukjang

Doujiang, fresh soy milk in Chinese cuisine

Fermented bean paste

Korean cuisine

List of condiments

List of fermented foods

List of fermented soy products

Yellow soybean paste

References

^ a b (in Korean) 주요 한식명(200개) 로마자 표기 및 번역(영, 중, 일) 표준안 [Standardized Romanizations and Translations (English, Chinese, and Japanese) of (200) Major Korean Dishes] (PDF). National Institute of Korean Language. 2014-07-30. Retrieved 2017-02-24. 주요 한식명 로마자 표기 및 표준 번역 확정안 공지. National Institute of Korean Language (Press release) (in Korean). 2014-05-02.

주요 한식명 로마자 표기 및 표준 번역 확정안 공지. National Institute of Korean Language (Press release) (in Korean). 2014-05-02.

^ a b Holland, M. (2015). The World on a Plate: 40 Cuisines, 100 Recipes, and the Stories Behind Them. Penguin Publishing Group. p. 221. ISBN 978-0-698-19406-9. Retrieved November 3, 2017.

^ 황, 광해 (9 January 2013). 바람이 말리고 세월이 삭힌 깊은 맛 [Deep flavour, dried by wind and fermented by time]. Weekly Hankook (in Korean). Retrieved 6 December 2016.

^ Koo, Chun-Sur (Spring 2004). "Ganjang and Doenjang: Traditional Fermented Seasonings" (PDF). Koreana. Vol. 18, no. 1. Korea Foundation. Archived from the original (PDF) on 9 November 2016. Retrieved 6 December 2016.

^ 신, 동민 (9 November 2015). 행복을 부르는 맛 '간장'…집에서 만든 만능간장소스 하나면 OK [Ganjang, the flavour that brings happiness... Home-made versatile ganjang sauce is all you need]. Maekyung Economy. No. 1831. Retrieved 6 December 2016.

^ a b 하, 상도 (11 January 2016). 신라시대에 왕비 폐백품목에도 있었던 식품은? [Guess what food was used for pyebaek ceremony of a Silla queen]. Chosun pub (in Korean). Archived from the original on 25 January 2016. Retrieved 6 December 2016.

^ 김, 성윤 (19 January 2012). 정월에 담근 장이 가장 맛있다는데… [Jang tastes the best when made in the first month of the year (in the Lunar calendar)]. The Chosun Ilbo (in Korean). Archived from the original on 4 March 2015. Retrieved 6 December 2016.

^ "Food_Code(No.2015-4_20150203)". www.mfds.go.kr. MFDS - Ministry Of Food And Drug Safety. 3 February 2015. Retrieved 6 December 2016.

^ 식품공전 (제 5. 식품별 기준 및 규격 / 20. 장류) [Food Code (Article 5. Standards and Specifications for Each Food Product / 20. Soy Sauces or Pastes)]. www.foodsafetykorea.go.kr (in Korean). 식품의약품안전처 식품안전정보포털. 30 September 2016. Retrieved 6 December 2016.

^ Prof. Kun-Young Park, Pusan National University (2005-10-26). "Korean food for defeating cancer" (in Korean). Hankook Ilbo. Archived from the original on 2008-05-10. Retrieved 2007-11-26.

^ Prof. Suk Ja, Yoon Baewha Women's College (2004-04-16). "Efficacy and Nutrition of Doenjang" (in Korean). Public website. Archived from the original on 2011-07-18. Retrieved 2008-01-21.

^ Chung, Shil Kwak; Sang, Chul Park; Kye, Yong Song (2012). "Doenjang, a Fermented Soybean Paste, Decreased Visceral Fat Accumulation and Adipocyte Size in Rats Fed with High Fat Diet More Effectively Than Nonfermented Soybeans". Journal of Medicinal Food. 15 (1): 1–9. doi:10.1089/jmf.2010.1224. PMID 22082067.

^ Cha, YS; Yang, JA; Back, HI; Kim, SR; Kim, MG; Jung, SJ; Song, WO; Chae, SW (2012). "Visceral fat and body weight are reduced in overweight adults by the supplementation of Doenjang, a fermented soybean paste". Nutr Res Pract. 6 (6): 520–6. doi:10.4162/nrp.2012.6.6.520. PMC 3542442. PMID 23346302.

^ "JOINS | 아시아 첫 인터넷 신문". Archived from the original on 2010-09-09. Retrieved 2008-01-21.

^ 실사로 보는… '이것이 된장녀의 하루!' The Hanguk 13 February 2007

External links

Different ways of consuming Doenjang (video)

Photo of South Korea-produced doenjang

The history of doenjang

Prof. Kun-Young Park, Pusan National University. "Longer aging time increases the anticancer and antimetastatic properties of doenjang" (in Korean). ASA-IM Korea. Archived from the original on 2007-12-05. Retrieved 2007-11-26.

"Regional doenjang" (in Korean). The Rural Development Administration of South Korea. Archived from the original on May 31, 2008. Retrieved 2007-11-26.

Soy allergy

Soy candle

Soy ink

Soy molasses

Soy paint

Soy protein

Soybean

Diseases

Soybean meal

Soybean oil

List of soy-based foods

Aburaage

Agedashi tofu

Bai ye

Douhua

Dubu kimchi

Edamame

Hiyayakko

Kongguksu

Kongnamul

Mapo doufu

Miso soup

Sundubu jjigae

Tahu goreng

Tofu skin roll

Yong tau foo

Soy milk

Soy yogurt

Vegan cheese

Beanfeast

Tempeh

Textured vegetable protein

Tofurkey

Vegetarian hot dog

Veggie burger

Ganjang

Sweet soy sauce

Tamari

Teriyaki

Yìn yóu

Doenjang

Doubanjiang

Sweet bean sauce

Yellow soybean paste

Akhuni

Fermented bean curd

Douchi

Kinema

Mamenori

Mao tofu

Soy flour

Soy milk based infant formula

Soy nut

Soy pulp

Stinky tofu

Tofu skin

List of fermented soy products

Genistein

Genistin

Glycitein

Glycitin

Ononin

Daidzein

Equol (metabolite)

O-DMA (metabolite)

Daidzin (leaves)

Beta-conglycinin

Glycinin

Soybean agglutinin (lectin)

Beta-amylase

Lipoxygenase

Cysteine proteases

Kunitz inhibitor

Bowman-Birk inhibitor

Soy lecithin (mix of Phospholipids)

Lunasin

Unsaponifiables Tocopherols Sterols

Tocopherols

Sterols

Antinutrients Phytates

Phytates

Protease Inhibitors Cystatins

Cystatins

8th Continent

Boca Burger

Gardenburger

Kikkoman

Morningstar Farms

Mr Bean

Plamil Foods

So Good

Tofutti

Vitasoy

Yamasa

Yeo Hiap Seng

Diet for a Small Planet

Kikkoman Soy Sauce Museum

Soy sauce fish

William Shurtleff and Akiko Aoyagi

Yuasa, artisan town of historic soy sauce distilleries

# Soy sauce


Cookbook: Soy sauce

Media: Soy sauce

Soy sauce (sometimes called soya sauce in British English) is a liquid condiment of Chinese origin, traditionally made from a fermented paste of soybeans, roasted grain, brine, and Aspergillus oryzae or Aspergillus sojae molds. It is recognized for its saltiness and pronounced umami taste.

Soy sauce was created in its current form about 2,200 years ago during the Western Han dynasty of ancient China. Since then, it has become an important ingredient in East and Southeast Asian cooking as well as a condiment worldwide.

Use and storage

Soy sauce may be added directly to food and is commonly used as a dipping sauce or used as seasoning in cooking. It is often eaten with rice, noodles, sushi, or sashimi, or mixed with ground wasabi for dipping. Bottles of soy sauce for the purpose of seasoning dishes are common on restaurant tables in many countries. Soy sauce is indefinitely shelf-stable.

History

Soy sauce (醬油, jiàngyóu) is considered almost as old as soy paste—a type of fermented paste (jiàng, 醬) obtained from soybeans—which had appeared during the Western Han dynasty (206 BC – 220 AD) and was listed in the bamboo slips found in the archaeological site Mawangdui (馬王堆). There are several precursors of soy sauce that are associated products with soy paste. The oldest is qingjiang (清醬), which appeared in AD 40 and was listed in Simin Yueling (四民月令). Others are jiangqing (醬清), chizhi (豉汁) and chiqing (豉清), which were recorded in the Qimin Yaoshu (齊民要術) in AD 540. By the time of the Song dynasty (960–1279 AD), the term jiàng yóu (醬油) had become the accepted name for the liquid condiment, documented in two books: Shanjia Qinggong (山家清供) and Pujiang Wushi Zhongkuilu (浦江吳氏中饋錄) during the Song dynasty (960–1279 AD).

Like many salty condiments, soy sauce was originally a way to stretch salt, historically an expensive commodity. During the Zhou dynasty of ancient China, fermented fish with salt was used as a condiment in which soybeans were included during the fermentation process. By the time of the Han dynasty, this had been replaced with the recipe for soy paste and its by-product soy sauce, by using soybeans as the principal ingredient, with fermented fish-based sauces developing separately into fish sauce.

The 19th century Sinologist Samuel Wells Williams wrote that in China, the best soy sauce was "made by boiling beans soft, adding an equal quantity of wheat or barley, and leaving the mass to ferment; a portion of salt and three times as much water are afterwards put in, and the whole compound left for two or three months when the liquid is pressed and strained".

A condiment that predated soy sauce in Japan was gyoshō (魚醤), a fish sauce. When practitioners of Buddhism came to Japan from China in the 7th century, they introduced vegetarianism and brought many soy-based products with them, such as soy sauce, which is known as shōyu (醤油) in Japan. Shoyu exportation began in 1647 by the Dutch East India Company.

The earliest soy sauce brewing in Korea seems to have begun in the era of the Three Kingdoms.[citation needed] Jangdoks used for soy sauce brewing are found in the mural paintings of Anak Tomb No. 3 from the 4th century Goguryeo.

In Samguk sagi, a historical record of the Three Kingdoms era, it is written that ganjang (soy sauce) and doenjang (soybean paste), along with meju (soybean block) and jeotgal (salted seafood), were prepared for the wedding ceremony of the King Sinmun in February 683. Sikhwaji, a section from Goryeosa (History of Goryeo), recorded that ganjang and doenjang were included in the relief supplies in 1018, after a Khitan invasion, and in 1052, when a famine occurred. Joseon texts such as Guhwangchwaryo and Jeungbo sallim gyeongje contain the detailed procedures on how to brew good quality ganjang and doenjang.[verification needed] Gyuhap chongseo explains how to pick a date for brewing, what to forbear, and how to keep and preserve ganjang and doenjang.

In the Philippines, soy sauce was likely first recorded through the documentation of the traditional dish adobo in 1613 via the San Buenaventura paper. Food historian Raymond Sokolov noted that the ingredients used in the dish, including soy sauce, likely were present in the native cuisine even before the colonial-era record.

Europe

Records of the Dutch East India Company list soy sauce as a commodity in 1737, when seventy-five large barrels were shipped from Dejima, Japan, to Batavia (present-day Jakarta) on the island of Java. Thirty-five barrels from that shipment were then shipped to the Netherlands. In the 18th century, diplomat and scholar Isaac Titsingh published accounts of brewing soy sauce. Although earlier descriptions of soy sauce had been disseminated in the West, his was among the earliest to focus specifically on the brewing of the Japanese version. By the mid-19th century, Japanese soy sauce gradually disappeared from the European market, and the condiment became synonymous with the Chinese product. Europeans were unable to make soy sauce because they did not have access to Aspergillus oryzae, the fungus used in its brewing. Soy sauce made from ingredients such as portobello mushrooms were disseminated in European cookbooks during the late 18th century. A Swedish recipe for "Soija" was published in the 1770 edition of Cajsa Warg's Hjelpreda i Hushållningen för Unga Fruentimber and was flavored with allspice and mace.

United States

Soy sauce production in the United States began in the Territory of Hawaii in 1905 by Yamajo Soy Co, which by 1909 was renamed the Hawaiian Soy Company Ltd. La Choy started selling hydrolyzed vegetable protein–based soy sauce in 1933.

Prior to 1976, some Americans called the sauce "beetle juice," an insulting name. This usage, by 1976, had vanished.

Production

Soy sauce is made either by fermentation or by hydrolysis. Some commercial sauces have both fermented and chemical sauces.

Flavor, color, and aroma developments during production are attributed to non-enzymatic Maillard browning.

Variation is usually achieved as the result of different methods and durations of fermentation, different ratios of water, salt, and fermented soy, or through the addition of other ingredients.

Traditional

Traditional soy sauces are made by mixing soybeans and grain with mold cultures such as Aspergillus oryzae and other related microorganisms and yeasts (the resulting mixture is called Koji in Japan; the term koji is used both for the mixture of soybeans, wheat, and mold as well as for the mold itself). Historically, the mixture was fermented naturally in large urns and under the sun, which was believed to contribute extra flavors. Today, the mixture is placed in a temperature- and humidity-controlled incubation chamber.

Traditional soy sauces take months to make:

Soaking and cooking: The soybeans are soaked in water and boiled until cooked. Wheat is roasted and crushed.

Koji culturing: Equal amounts of boiled soybeans and roasted wheat are mixed to form a grain mixture. A culture of Aspergillus spore is added to the grain mixture and mixed, or the mixture is allowed to gather spores from the environment itself. The cultures include: Aspergillus: a genus of fungus that is used for fermenting various ingredients (the cultures are called koji in Japanese). Three species are used for brewing soy sauce: A. oryzae: Strains with high proteolytic capacity are used for brewing soy sauce. A. sojae: This fungus also has a high proteolytic capacity. A. tamarii: This fungus is used for brewing tamari, a variety of soy sauce. Saccharomyces cerevisiae: the yeasts in the culture convert some of the sugars to ethanol which can undergo secondary reactions to make other flavor compounds Other microbes contained in the culture: Bacillus spp. (genus): This organism is likely to grow in soy sauce ingredients, and to generate odors and ammonia. Lactobacillus species: This organism makes a lactic acid that increases the acidity in the feed.

Aspergillus: a genus of fungus that is used for fermenting various ingredients (the cultures are called koji in Japanese). Three species are used for brewing soy sauce: A. oryzae: Strains with high proteolytic capacity are used for brewing soy sauce. A. sojae: This fungus also has a high proteolytic capacity. A. tamarii: This fungus is used for brewing tamari, a variety of soy sauce.

A. oryzae: Strains with high proteolytic capacity are used for brewing soy sauce.

A. sojae: This fungus also has a high proteolytic capacity.

A. tamarii: This fungus is used for brewing tamari, a variety of soy sauce.

Saccharomyces cerevisiae: the yeasts in the culture convert some of the sugars to ethanol which can undergo secondary reactions to make other flavor compounds

Other microbes contained in the culture: Bacillus spp. (genus): This organism is likely to grow in soy sauce ingredients, and to generate odors and ammonia. Lactobacillus species: This organism makes a lactic acid that increases the acidity in the feed.

Bacillus spp. (genus): This organism is likely to grow in soy sauce ingredients, and to generate odors and ammonia.

Lactobacillus species: This organism makes a lactic acid that increases the acidity in the feed.

Brewing: The cultured grain mixture is mixed into a specific amount of salt brine for wet fermentation or with coarse salt for dry fermentation and left to brew. Over time, the Aspergillus mold on the soy and wheat break down the grain proteins into free amino acid and protein fragments and starches into simple sugars. This amino-glycosidic reaction gives soy sauce its dark brown color. Lactic acid bacteria ferments the sugars into lactic acid and yeast makes ethanol, which through aging and secondary fermentation makes numerous flavor compounds typical of soy sauce.

Pressing: The fully fermented grain slurry is placed into cloth-lined containers and pressed to separate the solids from the liquid soy sauce. The isolated solids are used as fertilizer or fed to animals while the liquid soy sauce is processed further.

Pasteurization: The raw soy sauce is heated to eliminate any active yeasts and molds remaining in the soy sauce and can be filtered to remove any fine particulates.

Storage: The soy sauce can be aged or directly bottled and sold.

High-salt liquid-state fermented soy sauce

High-salt liquid-state fermentation (HLF) of soybeans depends heavily on microbial activity, metabolism and enzymatic hydrolysis of macronutrients. Most traditional approaches fall into the scope of HLF.

During HLF, koji-infused soybeans are exposed to air so that hydrolytic enzymes of the mold can continuously break down macronutrients within the soybean.

Ample water, usually about 2 to 2.5 times the weight of the feed, is required to support sufficient microbial growth.

High salt concentration (17–20%) is required to selectively inhibit microbial activity.

HLF is generally carried out at 15–30 °C (59–86 °F), and requires a long ageing period, usually from 90 to 180 days. In the aging period, constant stirring of moromi (a mash/mixture of wheat (optionally), salt, soy beans, water, and fermenting yeast) is required for distributing nutrients, as well as flavoring compounds evenly. In some cases, moromi is exposed to direct sunlight to facilitate the decomposition of macronutrients.

Due to the high salinity of HLF moromi, only anaerobic halophiles can survive in the medium. Also, the 15–30 °C (59–86 °F) temperature range allows only the growth of mesophiles. Similar to the fermentation of pickles, the primary lactic acid fermentation of sugars by halophiles reduces the pH of moromi down to acidic range. Low pH further limits the growth of undesirable microbes, but favors the growth of fermentative yeast which contributes to secondary fermentation that generates various flavoring compounds and odorants.

Low-salt solid-state fermented soy sauce

LSF, also referred as rapid fermenting, is a modern fermentation method invented in response to high market demand.

Compared to HLF, LSF employs pure cultures at a relatively higher temperature (40–55 °C (104–131 °F)) and lower brine solution concentrations (13–15%). In LSF, koji is mixed with the equivalent weight of brine to form solid moromi.

The elevated temperature accelerates the fermentation process significantly. Due to the short aging (15–30 days) period of LSF, and low production cost, LSF soy sauce accounts for more share of the Chinese soy sauce market.

LSF evolved from salt-free solid-state fermentation, an even faster method working at even higher temperatures (50–65 °C (122–149 °F)) and taking 72 hours to complete, introduced to China from the Soviet Union in 1958. The aging time turned out to be too short develop a proper flavor profile, with burnt acidic notes left in the sauce. LSF is a compromise between this method and the more traditional HLF: the product tastes passable with more microbes allowed to survive, but still lacks depth. Reducing the salt content accelerates brewing by lifting salt-induced enzyme inhibition.

Acid-hydrolyzed vegetable protein

Some brands of soy sauce are made from acid-hydrolyzed soy protein instead of brewed with a traditional culture. This takes about three days. Although they have a different flavor, aroma, and texture when compared to brewed soy sauces, they can be produced more quickly and cheaply, and also have a longer shelf life and are usually made for these reasons. The clear plastic packets of dark sauce common with Chinese-style take-out food typically use a hydrolyzed vegetable protein formula. Some higher-priced hydrolyzed vegetable protein products with no added sugar or colorings are sold as low-sodium soy sauce alternatives called "liquid aminos" in health food stores, similar to the way salt substitutes are used. These products are, however, not necessarily low in sodium.

Chemical composition

The chemical composition of soy sauce is affected by the proportions of raw materials, fermentation methodologies, fermenting molds and strains, and post-fermentation treatments. Although the formation mechanism of chemical composition in soy sauce is complex, it has been widely accepted that free amino acids, water-soluble peptides and Maillard reaction products in soy sauce are considered as essential chemical composition and to provide core sensory effects. The primary fermentation of lactic-acid-fermenting halophiles lowers the pH of the moromi, and this directly results in the acidic pH range (4.4–5.4) of soy sauce products. The secondary fermentation conducted by heterofermentative microbes provides soy sauce with a wide range of flavor and odorant compounds by breaking down macronutrients. Soy proteins and grain proteins are hydrolyzed into short peptide chains and free amino acids, which adds umami to the product. Based on the result of free amino acid analysis, the most abundant amino acids in Chinese soy sauce product are glutamic acid, aspartic acid, alanine and leucine.

Starch is hydrolyzed into simple sugars which contribute to the sweet flavor in soy sauce. Legume fats may also be decomposed into short chain fatty acids, and the interactions among lipids and other macronutrients also result in a richer flavor in the final product. Non-enzymatic browning also contributes significantly to the development of the properties of soy sauce. The hydrolysis of proteins and large carbohydrates also provides free amino acids and simple sugars as reagents for the Maillard reaction.

Soy sauce may contain more than 1% alcohol and may run afoul of liquor control legislation.

Sensory profile

The taste of soy sauce is predominated by saltiness, followed by moderate umami, sweetness, and finally slight bitterness, which is hard to perceive due to the masking effect of other tastes. The overall flavor of soy sauce is a result of the balance and interaction among different taste components. The saltiness is largely attributed to the presence of NaCl (common salt) in brine. The sugars hydrolyzed from starch add sweetness into soy sauce. Umami is largely caused by the presence of free amino acids, mainly glutamine and aspartic acid. Sodium from the brine and disodium ribonucleotides from the soy also add to the umami. Other amino acids cause additional basic flavors, with sweet coming from Ala, Gly, Ser, and Thr; bitter coming from Arg, His, Ile, Leu, Met, Phe, Trp, Tyr, and Val; and no taste from Cys, Lys, and Pro. The amino-acid nitrogen content, an indication of the free amino acid concentration, is used in China for grading soy sauce. The highest "special grade" is defined at ≥ 0.8 g/100 mL.

Despite a large variety of volatile and odorant compounds that have been identified in soy sauce, the food product per se does not present a strong aroma. Alcohols, acids, esters, aldehydes, ketones, phenols, heterocyclic compounds, alkynes and benzenes have been identified in Chinese soy sauces. An explanation for this observation is that the aroma of soy sauce does not depend largely on the aroma-active compounds. The subtle aroma is a result of a "critical balance" achieved among all volatile and odorant compounds, whose respective concentrations are relatively low.

Variations by country

Soy sauce is widely used as an important flavoring and has been integrated into the traditional cuisines of many East Asian and Southeast Asian cultures. Despite their rather similar appearance, soy sauces made in different cultures and regions are different in taste, consistency, fragrance and saltiness. Soy sauce retains its quality longer when kept away from direct sunlight.

Burmese

Burmese soy sauce production is dated back to the Bagan Era in the 9th and 10th century. Scripts written in praise of pe ngan byar yay (ပဲငံပြာရည်, literally "bean fish sauce") were found.[citation needed] Thick soy sauce is called kya nyo (ကြာညို့, from Chinese jiàngyóu).[citation needed]

Chinese

Chinese soy sauces (Chinese: 醬油; pinyin: jiàng yóu; Jyutping: zoeng3 jau4; Cantonese Yale: jeungyàuh; or alternatively, 豉油; pinyin: chǐyóu; Jyutping: si6jau4; Cantonese Yale: sihyàuh) are primarily made from soybeans, with relatively low amounts of other grains. Chinese soy sauce produced by fermentation can be roughly split into two classes: brewed (direct fermented) or blended (with additives), occupying about 40% and 60% of market share respectively. Sauces can also be classed by fermentation technology (shown above) into Low-Salt Solid-State fermented soy sauce (LSF; 低鹽固態) and High-Salt Liquid-State fermented soy sauce (HLF; 高鹽稀態), occupying about 90% and 10% of market share respectively.

Soy sauce can be brewed directly from a fermentation process using wheat, soybeans, salt, and water without additional additives.

Light or fresh (生抽; pinyin: shēng chōu; Jyutping: saang1 cau1; Cantonese Yale: sāangchāu or 醬清; pinyin: jiàng qīng; Jyutping: zoeng3 cing1; Cantonese Yale: jeungchīng): is a thin (low viscosity), opaque, lighter brown soy sauce, brewed by first culturing steamed wheat and soybeans with Aspergillus, and then letting the mixture ferment in brine. It is the main soy sauce used for seasoning, since it is saltier, has less noticeable color, and also adds a distinct flavor. Tóu chōu (頭抽): A light soy sauce made from the first pressing of the soybeans, this can be loosely translated as "first soy sauce" or referred to as premium light soy sauce. Tóu chōu is sold at a premium because, like extra virgin olive oil, the flavor of the first pressing is considered superior. Due to its delicate flavor it is used primarily for seasoning light dishes and for dipping. Shuāng huáng (雙璜): A light soy sauce that is double-fermented by using the light soy sauce from another batch to take the place of brine for a second brewing. This adds further complexity to the flavor of the light soy sauce. Due to its complex flavor this soy sauce is used primarily for dipping.

Tóu chōu (頭抽): A light soy sauce made from the first pressing of the soybeans, this can be loosely translated as "first soy sauce" or referred to as premium light soy sauce. Tóu chōu is sold at a premium because, like extra virgin olive oil, the flavor of the first pressing is considered superior. Due to its delicate flavor it is used primarily for seasoning light dishes and for dipping.

Shuāng huáng (雙璜): A light soy sauce that is double-fermented by using the light soy sauce from another batch to take the place of brine for a second brewing. This adds further complexity to the flavor of the light soy sauce. Due to its complex flavor this soy sauce is used primarily for dipping.

Yìn yóu (蔭油): A darker soy sauce brewed primarily in Taiwan by culturing only steamed soybeans with Aspergillus and mixing the cultured soybeans with coarse rock salt before undergoing prolonged dry fermentation. The flavor of this soy sauce is complex and rich and is used for dipping or in red cooking. For the former use, yìn yóu can be thickened with starch to make a thick soy sauce.

Additives with sweet or umami tastes are sometimes added to a finished brewed soy sauce to modify its taste and texture.

Dark and old soy sauce (老抽; pinyin: lǎo chōu; Jyutping: lou5 cau1; Cantonese Yale: lóuhchāu), a darker and slightly thicker soy sauce made from light soy sauce. This soy sauce is made through prolonged aging and may contain added caramel colour or molasses to give it its distinctive appearance. It has a richer, slightly sweeter, and less salty flavour than light soy sauce. This variety is mainly used during cooking, since its flavour develops during heating. Dark soy sauce is mainly used to add color and flavor to a dish after cooking. One of the strongest varieties is known as "double black" (雙老頭抽) Mushroom dark soy (草菇老抽 cǎogū lǎochōu): In the finishing and aging process of making dark soy sauce, the broth of Volvariella volvacea (straw mushroom) is mixed into the soy sauce and is then exposed to the sun to make this type of dark soy. The added broth gives this soy sauce a richer flavor than plain dark soy sauce. Thick soy sauce (醬油膏 jiàng yóu gāo) is a dark soy sauce that has been thickened with heat and sugar; occasionally a starch thickener and MSG are used. This sauce is often used as a dipping sauce or finishing sauce and poured on food as a flavorful addition. However, due to its sweetness and caramelized flavors from its production process, the sauce is also used in red cooking. This style is particularly common with Taiwanese breakfast foods.

Mushroom dark soy (草菇老抽 cǎogū lǎochōu): In the finishing and aging process of making dark soy sauce, the broth of Volvariella volvacea (straw mushroom) is mixed into the soy sauce and is then exposed to the sun to make this type of dark soy. The added broth gives this soy sauce a richer flavor than plain dark soy sauce.

Thick soy sauce (醬油膏 jiàng yóu gāo) is a dark soy sauce that has been thickened with heat and sugar; occasionally a starch thickener and MSG are used. This sauce is often used as a dipping sauce or finishing sauce and poured on food as a flavorful addition. However, due to its sweetness and caramelized flavors from its production process, the sauce is also used in red cooking. This style is particularly common with Taiwanese breakfast foods.

Shrimp soy sauce (蝦子醬油 xiā zǐ jiàngyóu): Fresh soy sauce is simmered with fresh shrimp and finished with sugar, baijiu (a type of distilled liquor, 白酒), and spices. It is a specialty of Suzhou.

Besides the above traditional types, hydrolyzed vegetable protein and other flavor enhancers may be mixed with brewed soy sauce to produce cheaper substitutes. This type is known as "blended soy sauce" (Chinese: 配製醬油) in China until 2019, when a Chinese 2018 standard that removed this type from the definition of soy sauce went into effect.

The 2018 Chinese standard defines soy sauce as "liquid condiments with special color, aroma and taste made from soybeans and/or defatted soybeans, wheat and/or wheat flour and/or wheat bran as main raw materials through microbial fermentation." It still allows food additives to be used "following the definitions of GB 2760", which does not restrict the use of MSG and disodium ribonucleotides. (Hydrolyzed vegetable protein is not listed as a food additive in GB 2760 and is therefore unacceptable in products labelled as "soy sauce".)

Filipino

In the Philippines, soy sauce is called toyò in the native languages, derived from tau-yu in Philippine Hokkien. Philippine soy sauce is usually a combination of soybeans, wheat, salt, and caramel color. It is thinner in texture and has a saltier taste than its Southeast Asian counterparts. It is most similar to the Japanese koikuchi shōyu in terms of consistency and the use of wheat, though toyò is slightly saltier and darker in color.

Toyò is used as a marinade, an ingredient in cooked dishes, and most often as a table condiment, usually alongside other sauces such as fish sauce (patís) and sugar cane vinegar (sukà). It is often mixed and served with the juice of the calamansi (× Citrofortunella microcarpa; also called calamondin, limonsito). The combination is known as toyomansî, which can be comparable to the Japanese ponzu sauce (soy sauce with yuzu). Toyò is also a main ingredient in Philippine adobo, one of the more famous dishes of Filipino cuisine.

Hawaiian

Soy sauce is a ubiquitous condiment and ingredient in many dishes in Hawaiian cuisine, where it is commonly known by its Japanese name shōyu by locals. Aloha Shoyu is a soy sauce manufacturer in Hawaii that produces a popular soy sauce whose flavor is more delicate and somewhat sweeter compared to other more well-known soy sauces.

Indonesian

In Indonesia, soy sauce is known as kecap (old spelling: ketjap), which is a catch-all term for fermented sauces, and cognate to the English word "ketchup". The most popular type of soy sauce in Indonesian cuisine is kecap manis or sweet soy sauce. The term kecap is also used to describe other condiments and sauces of a similar appearance, such as kecap ikan (fish sauce) and kecap Inggris (worcestershire sauce; lit. "English sauce" or "England sauce"). Three common varieties of soy-based kecap exist in Indonesian cuisine, used either as ingredients or condiments:

Kecap manis: Sweetened soy sauce, which has a thick syrupy consistency and a unique, pronounced, sweet, somewhat treacle-like flavor due to generous addition of palm sugar. Regular soy with brown sugar and a trace of molasses added can substitute. It is by far the most popular type of soy sauce employed in Indonesian cuisine, accounts for an estimated 90 percent of the nation's total soy sauce production. Kecap manis is an important sauce in Indonesian signature dishes, such as nasi goreng, mie goreng, satay, tongseng and semur. Sambal kecap for example is type of sambal dipping sauce of kecap manis with sliced chili, tomato and shallot, a popular dipping sauce for sate kambing (goat meat satay) and ikan bakar (grilled fish/seafood). Since soy sauce is of Chinese origin, kecap asin is also an important seasoning in Chinese Indonesian cuisine.

Kecap manis sedang: Medium sweet soy sauce, which has a less thick consistency, is less sweet and has a saltier taste than kecap manis.

Kecap asin: Regular soy sauce derived from the Japanese shoyu, but usually more concentrated and thicker, with a darker color and stronger flavor; it can be replaced by Chinese light soy sauce in some recipes. Salty soy sauce was first introduced into Indonesia by Hokkien people so its taste resembles that of Chinese soy sauce. Hakka soy sauce made from black beans is very salty and large productions are mainly made in Bangka Island.

Japanese

Shōyu is officially divided into five main types by the JAS (Japanese Agricultural Standard) depending on differences in their ingredients and method of production. These types are koikuchi, usukuchi, tamari, saishikomi, and shiro.

Most, but not all, Japanese soy sauces include wheat as a primary ingredient, which tends to give them a slightly sweeter taste than their Chinese counterparts. They also tend towards an alcoholic sherry-like flavor, sometimes enhanced by the addition of small amounts of alcohol as a natural preservative.[citation needed] The widely varying flavors of these soy sauces are not always interchangeable, so some recipes only call for one type or the other, much as a white wine cannot replace a red's flavor or beef stock does not make the same results as chicken stock.

Some soy sauces made in the Japanese way or styled after them contain about 50% wheat.

Koikuchi (濃口; 'thick taste'): Originating in the Kantō region, its usage eventually spread all over Japan. Over 80% of the Japanese domestic soy sauce production is of koikuchi, and can be considered the typical Japanese soy sauce. It is made from roughly equal quantities of soybean and wheat. This variety is also called kijōyu (生醤油) or namashōyu (生しょうゆ) when it is not pasteurized.

Usukuchi (薄口; 'thin taste'): Almost 14% of soy sauce production is usukuchi shoyu. It is particularly popular in the Kansai region of Japan. It matures for less time than koichuchi and is both saltier and lighter in color. It is paler due to the use in its production of amazake, a sweet liquid made from fermented rice. Usukuchi is commonly used in cooking as it does not alter the color and taste of the ingredients.

Tamari (たまり): Made mainly in the Chūbu region of Japan, tamari is darker in appearance and richer in flavor than koikuchi. It contains little or no wheat. Wheat-free tamari can be used by people with gluten intolerance. Tamari is more viscous than koikuchi shoyu. Of soy sauce produced in Japan, 1.5% is tamari. It is the "original" Japanese soy sauce, as its recipe is closest to the soy sauce originally introduced to Japan from China. Technically, this variety is known as miso-damari (味噌溜り), as this is the liquid that runs off miso (a soybean-based seasoning and soup base) as it matures. The Japanese word tamari is derived from the verb tamaru (溜る; 'to accumulate'), referring to the fact that tamari was traditionally a liquid byproduct made during the fermentation of miso. Japan remains the leading producer of tamari,[citation needed] though it has also become popular in the United States. Tamari shoyu is often used for sashimi. Oftentimes, other varieties of soy sauce for sashimi are inaccurately referred to as tamari shoyu. The back label in Japan, by law, will clarify whether or not it is actually tamari.

Shiro (白; 'white'): In contrast to tamari soy sauce, shiro uses mostly wheat and very little soybean, lending it a light appearance and sweet taste. It is more commonly used in the Kansai region to highlight the appearances of food, for example sashimi. Shiro shoyu used to be used a lot in high-class cookery and is generally not available abroad. Its main use is for pickles. Of soy sauce production in Japan, 0.7% is shiro.

Saishikomi (再仕込; 'twice-brewed'): This variety substitutes previously made koikuchi for the brine normally used in the process. Consequently, it is much darker and more strongly flavored. This type is also known as kanro shōyu (甘露醤油; 'sweet soy sauce'). Of soy sauce production in Japan, 0.8% is saishikomi.

Kanro shoyu is a variety of soy sauce made exclusively in Yanai, a city in Yamaguchi Prefecture. It is handmade and is less salty and less sweet than saishikomi shoyu.

Amakuchi (甘口, 'sweet taste'): It is similar to koikuchi soy sauce, but with sweetener added. It is the most popular type of soy sauce in Kyushu region of Japan, which is famous for sweet foods. In some cases, it is more common to find amakuchi shoyu than koikuchi shoyu in Kyushu.

Newer varieties of Japanese soy sauce include:

Gen'en (減塩; 'reduced salt'): This version contains 50% less salt than regular soy sauce for consumers concerned about heart disease.

Usujio (薄塩; 'light salt'): This version contains 20% less salt than regular soy sauce.

All of these varieties are sold in three different grades according to how they were made:

Honjōzō (本醸造; 'genuine fermented'): Contains 100% genuine fermented product

Kongō-jōzō (混合醸造; 'mixed fermented'): Contains genuine fermented shōyu mash mixed with 30–50% of chemical or enzymatic hydrolysate of plant protein

Kongō (混合; 'mixed'): Contains honjōzō or Kongō-jōzō shōyu mixed with 30–50% of chemical or enzymatic hydrolysate of plant protein

All the varieties and grades may be sold according to three official levels of quality:

Hyōjun (標準): standard grade, contains more than 1.2% total nitrogen

Jōkyū (上級): upper grade, contains more than 1.35% of total nitrogen

Tokkyū (特級): special grade, contains more than 1.5% of total nitrogen

Korean

In South Korea, soy sauces or ganjang (간장, "seasoning sauce") can be roughly split into two categories: hansik ganjang ('Korean-style soy sauce') and gaeryang ganjang ('modernized soy sauce'). The term ganjang can also refer to non-soy-based salty condiments, such as eo-ganjang fish sauce.

Hansik ganjang (한식간장, 'Korean-style soy sauce') is made entirely of fermented soybean (meju) and brine. It is a byproduct of doenjang (fermented soybean paste) production, and has a unique fermented soybean flavour. Both lighter in colour and saltier than other Korean ganjang varieties, hansik ganjang is used mainly in guk (soup) and namul (seasoned vegetable dish) in modern Korean cuisine. Common names for hansik ganjang include jaeraesik ganjang (재래식 간장, "traditional soy sauce"), Joseon-ganjang (조선간장, "Joseon soy sauce"), and guk-ganjang (국간장, "soup soy sauce"). The homebrewed variety is also called jip-ganjang (집간장, "home soy sauce").

Depending on the length of aging, hansik ganjang can be divided into three main varieties: clear, middle, and dark.

Haet-ganjang (햇간장, "new soy sauce") – soy sauce aged for a year. Also called cheongjang (청장, "clear soy sauce").

Jung-ganjang (중간장, "middle soy sauce") – soy sauce aged for three to four years.

Jin-ganjang (진간장, "dark soy sauce") – soy sauce aged for more than five years. Also called jinjang (진장, "aged soy sauce"), nongjang (농장, "thick soy sauce"), or jingamjang (진감장, "aged mature soy sauce").

The Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety's Food Code classifies hansik-ganjang into two categories by their ingredients.

Jaerae-hansik-ganjang (재래한식간장, "traditional Korean-style soy sauce") – made with traditional style meju and brine.

Gaeryang-hansik-ganjang (개량한식간장, "modernized Korean-style soy sauce") – made with nontraditional meju (which can be made of regular soybean, rice, barley, wheat, or soybean meal, and ripened using traditional method or Aspergillus) and brine.

Gaeryang-ganjang (개량간장, "modernized soy sauce"), referring to varieties of soy sauces not made of meju, is now the most widely used type of soy sauce in modern Korean cuisine. The word ganjang without modifiers in bokkeum (stir-fry), jorim (braised or simmered dishes), and jjim (steamed dishes) recipes usually mean gaeryang-ganjang. Another common name of gaeryang-ganjang is jin-ganjang (진간장, "dark soy sauce"), because gaeryang-ganjang varieties are usually darker in appearance compared to traditional hansik ganjang. Having been introduced to Korea during the era of Japanese forced occupation, garyang ganjang is also called Wae-ganjang (왜간장, "Wae soy sauce").

Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety's Food Code classifies gaeryang-ganjang into four categories by their method of production.

Brewed soy sauce (양조간장, yangjo-ganjang) – made by fermenting soybean, soybean meal, or other grains with saline solution.

Acid-hydrolyzed soy sauce (산분해간장) – made by hydrolyzing raw materials containing protein with acid.

Enzyme-hydrolyzed soy sauce (효소분해간장) – made by hydrolyzing raw materials containing protein with enzyme.

Blended soy sauce (혼합간장) – Also called mixed soy sauce, blended soy sauce can be made by blending hansik-ganjang (Korean-style soy sauce) or yangjo-ganjang (brewed soy sauce) with acid-hydrolyzed soy sauce or enzyme-hydrolyzed soy sauce.

Eo-ganjang (어간장, "fish sauce"): Made mainly in Jeju island, eo-ganjang is a soy sauce substitute made of jeotgal (fermented fish).

Malaysian and Singaporean

Malays from Malaysia, using the Malay dialect similar to Indonesian, use the word kicap for soy sauce. Kicap is traditionally of two types: kicap lemak (lit "fat/rich soy sauce") and kicap cair. Kicap lemak is similar to Indonesian kecap manis but with very much less sugar, while kicap cair is the Malaysian equivalent of kecap asin.

Soy sauce, known in Peru as sillao from the Cantonese name of the item, is an important ingredient in Chifa.

Sri Lankan

Soy sauce (Sinhala: සෝයා සෝස්) is a popular food product used in Sri Lanka and is a major ingredient used in the nationally popular street food dish kottu. Soy sauce has largely been produced by the Sri Lankan Chinese community but its production has also spread to other communities in Sri Lanka. Soy sauce production in Sri Lanka is the same as the production of soy sauce in Indonesia. Fermentation occurs over a period of three months. The soy beans which are steeped in brine are then pressed to obtain a liquid sauce.

Taiwanese

The history of soy sauce making in Taiwan can be traced back to southeastern China, in the provinces of Fujian and Guangdong. Taiwanese soy sauce is known for its black bean variant, known as black bean soy sauce (黑豆蔭油), which producers claim to have stronger flavor and more nutrition. Most soy sauce makers in Taiwan make soy sauce from soybeans and wheat using machines, which is a technique introduced during Japanese rule. A smaller number of producers continue to handmake soy sauce in the traditional way.

In Thailand, soy sauce is called sii-íu (Thai: ซีอิ๊ว). Sii-íu kǎao (Thai: ซีอิ๊วขาว, 'white soy sauce') is used as regular soy sauce in Thai cuisine, while sii-íu dam (Thai: ซีอิ๊วดำ, 'black soy sauce') is used primarily for colour. Another darker-coloured variety, sii-íu wǎan (Thai: ซีอิ๊วหวาน, 'sweet soy sauce') is used for dipping sauces. Sɔ́ɔt prung rót (Thai: ซอสปรุงรส, 'seasoning sauce') is also commonly used in modern Thai cuisine.

Vietnamese

In Vietnam, Chinese-style soy sauce is called xì dầu (derived from the Cantonese name 豉油) or nước tương. The term "soy sauce" could also imply other condiments and soy bean paste with thick consistency known as tương. Both are used mostly as a seasoning or dipping sauce for a number of dishes. Vietnamese cuisine itself favors fish sauce in cooking, but nước tương has a clear presence in vegetarian cuisine and Buddhist cuisine.

Nutrition

A study by the National University of Singapore showed that Chinese dark soy sauce contains 10 times the antioxidants of red wine. Unpasteurized soy sauce is rich in lactic acid bacteria and of excellent anti-allergic potential.

Soy sauce does not contain the level of isoflavones associated with other soy products, such as tofu or edamame. It can also be very salty, having a salt content between 14 and 18%. Low-sodium soy sauces are made, but it is difficult to make soy sauce without using some quantity of salt as an antimicrobial agent.

A serving of 100 millilitres (3.5 imp fl oz; 3.4 US fl oz) of soy sauce contains, according to the USDA:

Energy : 60 kcal

Fat: 0.1 g

Carbohydrates: 5.57 g

Fibers: 0.8 g

Protein: 10.51 g

Sodium: 6 g

Carcinogens

Soy sauce may contain ethyl carbamate, a Group 2A carcinogen.

In 2001, the United Kingdom Food Standards Agency found in testing various soy sauces manufactured in mainland China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Thailand (made from hydrolyzed soy protein, rather than being naturally fermented) that 22% of tested samples contained a chemical carcinogen named 3-MCPD (3-monochloropropane-1,2-diol) at levels considerably higher than those deemed safe by the EU. About two-thirds of these samples also contained a second carcinogenic chemical named 1,3-DCP (1,3-dichloropropane-2-ol) which experts advise should not be present at any levels in food. Both chemicals have the potential to cause cancer, and the Agency recommended that the affected products be withdrawn from shelves and avoided. The same carcinogens were found in soy sauces manufactured in Vietnam, causing a food scare in 2007.

In Canada, the Canadian Cancer Society writes,

Health Canada has concluded that there is no health risk to Canadians from use of available soy and oyster sauces. Because continuous lifetime exposure to high levels of 3-MCPD could pose a health risk, Health Canada has established 1.0 part per million (ppm) as a guideline for importers of these sauces, in order to reduce Canadians' long-term exposure to this chemical. This is considered to be a very safe level.

Allergies

Soy sauce allergy not caused by soy or wheat allergy is rare. Most varieties of soy sauce contain wheat, to which some people have a medical intolerance. However, protein hydrolysis (fermentation or industrial) breaks down gluten, so some soy sauces may end up tolerable to gluten-intolerant individuals with no detectable gluten left. Japanese tamari soy sauce is traditionally wheat-free, and some tamari available commercially today is wheat- and gluten-free.

Acid-hydrolyzed vegetable protein is non-allergenic due to the completeness of protein breakdown.

See also

List of Chinese sauces

List of condiments

List of fermented soy products

References

^ "Definition of SOY SAUCE". www.merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 28 October 2020.

^ Leboffe, Michael; Pierce, Burton (30 July 2006). Microbiology Laboratory Theory and Application (2nd ed.). Morton Publishing Company. p. 317. ISBN 9780895827081.

^ "Soy Sauce, China's Liquid Spice". www.flavorandfortune.com. Archived from the original on 8 November 2016. Retrieved 7 November 2016.

^ a b c "調料文化：醬油的由來". 30 January 2012. Archived from the original on 30 January 2012.

^ a b c Hsing-Tsung, Huang (2000). Joseph Needham: Science and Civilisation in China, Vol.6, Part 5. Cambridge University Press. p. 346. ISBN 978-0521652704.

^ a b c d e Hsing-Tsung, Huang (2000). Joseph Needham: Science and Civilisation in China, Vol.6, Part 5. Cambridge University Press. pp. 358–359. ISBN 978-0521652704.

^ "Shπyu:The Flavor of Japan" (PDF). The Japan Foundation Newsletter Vol. XXVII, No. 2. January 2000. p. 2. Archived from the original (PDF) on 26 February 2009. Retrieved 15 November 2025.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o Ohyama, Takuji; Takahashi, Yoshihiko; Joh, Toshio; C. Whitaker, Andrew; Nishiwaki, Toshikazu; Morohashi, Keiko; Watanabe, Satoshi; Shimojo, Sayaka (14 May 2014). Traditional and modern Japanese soy foods : manufacturing, nutrition and cuisine of a variety of soy foods for health and joy of taste. Hauppauge, New York: Nova Science Publishers. ISBN 9781626186071. OCLC 858282101.

^ 林洪 [in Chinese]. 山家清供.

^ 浦江吴氏. 浦江吳氏中饋錄.

^ zh:醬

^ Kurlansky, Mark (2002). Salt: A world history. New York: Walker and Co. p. 20. ISBN 978-0-8027-1373-5.

^ Williams, Samuel Wells (1848), The Middle Kingdom: A Survey of the Geography, Government, Education, Social Life, Arts, Religion, &c. of the Chinese Empire and Its Inhabitants, 2 vol. Wiley & Putnam

^ a b c d e f g h i j Hosking, Richard (24 February 2015). A dictionary of Japanese food : ingredients & culture. Ishige, Naomichi. (First ed.). Tokyo, Japan: Tuttle Publishing. ISBN 9781462903436. OCLC 876044632.

^ Wilson, Kathy (2010). Biotechnology and genetic engineering. New York: Facts on File. p. 90. ISBN 978-0-8160-7784-7.

^ a b Sugiura, K.; Sugiura, M. (Fall 2019). "Soy Sauce Allergy". Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology. 24 (7): 852–855. doi:10.1111/j.1468-3083.2009.03512.x. PMID 19943834. S2CID 26089906.

^ 신, 동민 (9 November 2015). 행복을 부르는 맛 '간장'...집에서 만든 만능간장소스 하나면 OK [Ganjang, the flavour that brings happiness... Home-made versatile ganjang sauce is all you need]. Maekyung Economy. No. 1831. Retrieved 9 November 2016.

^ a b 하, 상도 (11 January 2016). 신라시대에 왕비 폐백품목에도 있었던 식품은? [Guess what food was used for pyebaek ceremony of a Silla queen]. Chosun pub (in Korean). Archived from the original on 25 January 2016. Retrieved 9 November 2016.

^ 김, 성윤 (19 January 2012). 정월에 담근 장이 가장 맛있다는데... [Jang tastes the best when made in the first month of the year (in the Lunar calendar)]. The Chosun Ilbo (in Korean). Archived from the original on 4 March 2015. Retrieved 9 November 2016.

^ Adobo: The History Behind A National Favorite. Pepper Magazine.

^ Tanaka, p. 6.

^ Titsingh, Isaac. (1781). "Bereiding van de Soya" ("Producing Soy Sauce"), Verhandelingen van het Bataviaasch Genootschap (Transactions of the Batavian Academy), Vol. III. OCLC 9752305

^ a b Tanaka, p. 7.

^ Warg, Cajsa (1770) Hjelpreda i Hushållningen för Unga Fruentimber, "Soija" pp. 70–71 of the appendix

^ "How Japanese and Japanese-Americans Brought Soyfoods to the United States and the Hawaiian Islands - A History (1851-2011) - SoyInfo Center". www.soyinfocenter.com.

^ Shurtleff, William; Aoyagi, Akiko (2004). "History of Soy Sauce, Shoyu, and Tamari – Page 7". Soy Info Center. Retrieved 27 December 2019.

^ Hsu, Madeline Y. "From Chop Suey to Mandarin Cuisine: Fine Dining and the Refashioning of Chinese Ethnicity During the Cold War Era" (PDF). University of British Columbia. pp. 15–16, 29, 31/34. Archived from the original (PDF) on 6 July 2011. Retrieved 18 February 2026.

^ Lertsiri, Sittiwat; Maungma, Roungdao; Assavanig, Apinya; Bhumiratana, Amaret (1 May 2001). "Roles of the Maillard Reaction in Browning During Moromi Process of Thai Soy Sauce". Journal of Food Processing and Preservation. 25 (2): 149–162. doi:10.1111/j.1745-4549.2001.tb00450.x. ISSN 1745-4549.

^ "Tamari, Soy Sauce – San-J". san-j.com. Archived from the original on 18 February 2011.

^ Maheshwari, D.K.; Dubey, R.C.; Saravanamuthu, R. (2010). Industrial exploitation of microorganisms. New Delhi: I.K. International Pub. House. p. 242. ISBN 978-93-8002-653-4.

^ Dorner, J W (December 1983). "Production of cyclopiazonic acid by Aspergillus tamarii Kita". Applied and Environmental Microbiology. 46 (6): 1435–1437. Bibcode:1983ApEnM..46.1435D. doi:10.1128/AEM.46.6.1435-1437.1983. ISSN 0099-2240. PMC 239590. PMID 6660879.

^ a b c d e f Wanwan. "中國、日本和韓國的醬油有什麼異同？" [What are the commonalities and differences among Chinese, Japanese, and Korean soy sauces?]. Zhihu Daily (curated section). Retrieved 25 August 2022.

^ a b c Feng, Yunzi; Cai, Yu; Su, Guowan; Zhao, Haifeng; Wang, Chenxia; Zhao, Mouming (February 2014). "Evaluation of aroma differences between high-salt liquid-state fermentation and low-salt solid-state fermentation soy sauces from China". Food Chemistry. 145: 126–134. Bibcode:2014FoodC.145..126F. doi:10.1016/j.foodchem.2013.07.072. PMID 24128458.

^ "2017年中国酱油产量、出口量、进口量及表观消费量走势分析【图】_中国产业信息网". www.chyxx.com.

^ a b HE, Changzhi (March 1991). "601 固态低盐发酵; 602 固态无盐发酵". 食品知识手册 (in Chinese). Beijing: 中国轻工业出版社. ISBN 7-5019-0537-1.[permanent dead link]

^ "Korean Restaurant Guide article on soy sauce". Koreanrestaurantguide.com. Archived from the original on 27 September 2010. Retrieved 16 July 2010.

^ a b Zhang, Yanfang; Tao, Wenyi (18 February 2009). "Flavor and taste compounds analysis in Chinese solid fermented soy sauce". African Journal of Biotechnology. 8 (4): 673–681. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.891.5204.

^ Gao, Xianli; Cui, Chun; Ren, Jiaoyan; Zhao, Haifeng; Zhao, Qiangzhong; Zhao, Mouming (February 2011). "Changes in the chemical composition of traditional Chinese-type soy sauce at different stages of manufacture and its relation to taste". International Journal of Food Science & Technology. 46 (2): 243–249. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2621.2010.02487.x.

^ Beavan, Katrina (30 July 2019). "NT liquor licensing laws affect sale of household cooking products, vendors warned". ABC News and Current Affairs. Retrieved 30 July 2019.

^ Tseng, Yu-Hsiu; Lee, Yu-Ling; Li, Ruei-Chian; Mau, Jeng-Leun (May 2005). "Non-volatile flavour components of Ganoderma tsugae". Food Chemistry. 90 (3): 409–415. doi:10.1016/j.foodchem.2004.03.054.

^ Ouyang, Qin; Chen, Quansheng; Zhao, Jiewen; Lin, Hao (September 2013). "Determination of Amino Acid Nitrogen in Soy Sauce Using Near Infrared Spectroscopy Combined with Characteristic Variables Selection and Extreme Learning Machine". Food and Bioprocess Technology. 6 (9): 2486–2493. doi:10.1007/s11947-012-0936-0. S2CID 98448382.

^ Kamal, Ghulam Mustafa; Wang, Xiaohua; Bin Yuan; Wang, Jie; Sun, Peng; Zhang, Xu; Liu, Maili (September 2016). "Compositional differences among Chinese soy sauce types studied by 13C NMR spectroscopy coupled with multivariate statistical analysis". Talanta. 158: 89–99. doi:10.1016/j.talanta.2016.05.033. PMID 27343582.

^ 咱へ故鄉 丸莊醬油 玉而富 Arts104 古玩古董. jzqu20519 (in Chinese). 4 February 2010. Archived from the original on 11 December 2021 – via YouTube.

^ "Double Black Soy Sauce - Chinese Ingredients". 30 August 2019.

^ Anusasananan, Linda Lau (8 October 2012). The Hakka Cookbook: Chinese Soul Food from around the World. University of California Press. ISBN 978-0-520-95344-4.

^ a b GB 2717-2018 食品安全國家標準 醬油 [GB 2717-2018 National Food Safety Standard - Soy Sauce] (in Chinese). State Administration for Market Regulation. 21 June 2018.

^ GB 2760-2014: 食品安全國家標準 食品添加物使用標準 [GB 2760-2014 Food safety national standard—Standard on the use of food additives] (PDF) (in Chinese). 國家衛生與計劃生育委員會.

^ Liwanag, M.A. (7 June 2020). "Filipino Soy Sauce". Pinoy Bites. Retrieved 28 January 2021.

^ "Soy Sauce". Clove Garden. Retrieved 28 January 2021.

^ "About". Aloha Shoyu Company. Retrieved 7 August 2019.

^ See discussion and references at Wiktionary: ketchup.

^ Shurtleff, William; Aoyagi, Akiko (2010). History of Soybeans and Soyfoods in Southeast Asia (13th Century To 2010): Extensively Annotated Bibliography and Sourcebook. Soyinfo Center. p. 537. ISBN 9781928914303. Retrieved 15 February 2016.

^ a b Japanese Agricultural Standard (3 December 2015). "しょうゆの日本農林規格" [JAS Standard for Soy Sauce] (PDF). maff.go.jp (in Japanese) (2015 ed.). Retrieved 31 May 2024.

^ "Types and how to use them". Soy Sauce Information Center. Retrieved 25 June 2022.

^ Lo, Andrea Lynn (4 October 2019). "Do You Know Your Soy Sauces? Japanese, Chinese, and Indonesian Differences". Serious Eats. Retrieved 16 September 2025.

^ "What is Shoyu? Definitive Guide to Japanese Soy Sauce". The Chef Dojo. 19 July 2020. Retrieved 30 November 2022.

^ Steinkraus, Keith H., ed. (2004). Industrialization of indigenous fermented foods (Second ed.). Marcel Dekker. p. 22. ISBN 978-0-8247-4784-8.

^ Wood, Brian J. B., ed. (1998). Microbiology of fermented foods. Vol. 1 (Second ed.). Blackie Academic & Professional. p. 364. ISBN 978-0-7514-0216-2.

^ a b c "Food_Code(No.2015-4_20150203)". www.mfds.go.kr. MFDS – Ministry of Food And Drug Safety. 3 February 2015. Retrieved 9 November 2016.

^ a b c 식품공전 (제 5. 식품별 기준 및 규격 / 20. 장류) [Food Code (Article 5. Standards and Specifications for Each Food Product / 20. Soy Sauces or Pastes)]. www.foodsafetykorea.go.kr (in Korean). 식품의약품안전처 식품안전정보포털. 30 September 2016. Retrieved 9 November 2016.

^ 정, 재균 (4 April 2014). 양조간장·진간장·국간장 무슨 차이지? 간장의 종류별 활용법 [Yangjo-ganjang, jin-ganjang, and guk-ganjang: What's the difference? Uses of different types of ganjang.]. The Chosun Ilbo (in Korean). Archived from the original on 10 November 2016. Retrieved 9 November 2016.

^ Jung, Soon Teck; Kang, Seong-Gook (2002). "The Past and Present of Traditional Fermented Foods in Korea". Archived from the original on 23 December 2007. Retrieved 7 January 2008.

^ 김, 봉현 (9 August 2010). 제주에는 생선으로 만든 '천연간장(?)'이 있다. 제주의 소리. Retrieved 5 November 2016.

^ 박, 미향 (10 October 2012). 한국식 피시소스 제주어간장 아시나요. The Hankyoreh. Retrieved 5 November 2016.

^ "Chicken Kottu Roti Recipe".

^ Shurtleff, William; Huang, H.T; Aoyagi, Akiko (22 June 2014). History of Soybeans and Soyfoods in China and Taiwan, and in Chinese Cookbooks, Restaurants, and Chinese Work with Soyfoods Outside China (1024 BCE to 2014): Extensively Annotated Bibliography and Sourcebook, Including Manchuria, Hong Kong and Tibet. Soyinfo Center. ISBN 9781928914686.

^ Chung, Oscar (1 January 2010). "A Sauce for All". Taiwan Review. Government Information Office, Republic of China (Taiwan). Archived from the original on 11 March 2012. Retrieved 14 November 2010.

^ Daniells, Stephen (6 June 2006). "Antioxidant-rich soy sauce could protect against CVD". nutraingredients.com. Archived from the original on 14 December 2007. Retrieved 7 January 2008.

^ Tanasupawat, Somboon; et al. (18 June 2002). "Lactic acid bacteria isolated from soy sauce mash in Thailand". Journal of General and Applied Microbiology. 48 (4): 201–209. doi:10.2323/jgam.48.201. PMID 12469319.

^ Kobayashi, Makio (18 April 2005). "Immunological Functions of Soy Sauce: Hypoallergenicity and Antiallergic Activity of Soy Sauce". Journal of Bioscience and Bioengineering. 100 (2): 144–151. doi:10.1263/jbb.100.144. PMID 16198255.

^ Shahidi, Fereidoon; Naczk, Marian (2003). Phenolics in food and nutraceuticals, Edition 2. Florence, Kentucky: CRC Press. p. 103. ISBN 978-1-58716-138-4.

^ Hutkins, Robert Wayne (2006). Microbiology and technology of fermented foods. Blackwell publishing. ISBN 978-0-8138-0018-9.

^ Matsudo, Takanao; Aoki, Terumichi; Abe, Keietsu; Fukuta, Nami; Higuchi, Takeshi; Sasaki, Masaoki; Uchida, Kinji (1993). "Determination of ethyl carbamate in soy sauce and its possible precursor". J Agric Food Chem. 41 (3): 352–356. Bibcode:1993JAFC...41..352M. doi:10.1021/jf00027a003.

^ "Survey of 3-Monochloropropane-1,2-Diol (3-MCPD) in Soy Sauce and Related Products (Number 14/01)". Food Standards Agency. 18 June 2001. Archived from the original on 15 May 2012. Retrieved 16 July 2010.

^ de la Rosa, Junelyn S. (May 2004). "Is your soy sauce safe?". Bar.gov.ph. Archived from the original on 15 January 2015. Retrieved 1 January 2015.

^ Food Standards Agency (20 June 2001). "Some Soy Sauce Products to Be Removed" (Press release). Food Standards Agency. Archived from the original on 10 December 2010. Retrieved 7 January 2008.

^ UK UK Food Standards Agency: Soy advice leaflet. Archived 9 June 2012 at the Wayback Machine

^ "Soya sauce stirs worry and discontentment among public". Tuoi Tre, Tien Phong, VietNamNet, Lao dong. VietNamNet Bridge. Archived from the original on 15 May 2010. Retrieved 16 July 2010.

^ (AFP) (11 September 2007). "Toxic soy sauce, chemical veggies — food scares hit Vietnam". Archived from the original on 19 January 2010. Retrieved 16 July 2010.

^ "Oyster and soy sauce". Canadian Cancer Society. Retrieved 25 December 2012.[permanent dead link]

^ Celiac Disease Foundation. "Celiac Disease Foundation".

^ "Does soy sauce contain gluten?". Soya.be. Retrieved 16 July 2010.

^ Reuter; et al. "Evaluation of the allergenic potential of soy and wheat based seasonings". Allergy. 65 (supplement 92, abstract 842).

Further reading

Huang, T. C.; Teng, D. F. (2004). "Soy Sauce". Handbook of Food and Beverage Fermentation Technology. doi:10.1201/9780203913550.ch29 (inactive 12 July 2025). ISBN 978-0-8247-4780-0.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of July 2025 (link)—on the production of soy sauce

External links

Media related to Soy sauce at Wikimedia Commons

Soy allergy

Soy candle

Soy ink

Soy molasses

Soy paint

Soy protein

Soybean

Diseases

Soybean meal

Soybean oil

List of soy-based foods

Aburaage

Agedashi tofu

Bai ye

Douhua

Dubu kimchi

Edamame

Hiyayakko

Kongguksu

Kongnamul

Mapo doufu

Miso soup

Sundubu jjigae

Tahu goreng

Tofu skin roll

Yong tau foo

Soy milk

Soy yogurt

Vegan cheese

Beanfeast

Tempeh

Textured vegetable protein

Tofurkey

Vegetarian hot dog

Veggie burger

Ganjang

Sweet soy sauce

Tamari

Teriyaki

Yìn yóu

Doenjang

Doubanjiang

Sweet bean sauce

Yellow soybean paste

Akhuni

Fermented bean curd

Douchi

Kinema

Mamenori

Mao tofu

Soy flour

Soy milk based infant formula

Soy nut

Soy pulp

Stinky tofu

Tofu skin

List of fermented soy products

Genistein

Genistin

Glycitein

Glycitin

Ononin

Daidzein

Equol (metabolite)

O-DMA (metabolite)

Daidzin (leaves)

Beta-conglycinin

Glycinin

Soybean agglutinin (lectin)

Beta-amylase

Lipoxygenase

Cysteine proteases

Kunitz inhibitor

Bowman-Birk inhibitor

Soy lecithin (mix of Phospholipids)

Lunasin

Unsaponifiables Tocopherols Sterols

Tocopherols

Sterols

Antinutrients Phytates

Phytates

Protease Inhibitors Cystatins

Cystatins

8th Continent

Boca Burger

Gardenburger

Kikkoman

Morningstar Farms

Mr Bean

Plamil Foods

So Good

Tofutti

Vitasoy

Yamasa

Yeo Hiap Seng

Diet for a Small Planet

Kikkoman Soy Sauce Museum

Soy sauce fish

William Shurtleff and Akiko Aoyagi

Yuasa, artisan town of historic soy sauce distilleries

List of condiments

List of common dips

List of syrups

Agre dulce

Agrodolce

Barbecue

Bigarade

Buffalo

Cheese Alfredo Caruso Cheddar Cheez Whiz Fondue Mornay Nacho cheese

Alfredo

Caruso

Cheddar

Cheez Whiz

Fondue

Mornay

Nacho cheese

Chimichurri

Cocktail

Colo-colo

Caruru

Dabu-dabu

Fritessaus

Gastrique

Khrenovina

Lechon

Marie Rose

Mayonnaise Kewpie Kielecki Miracle Whip

Kewpie

Kielecki

Miracle Whip

Mignonette

Monkey gland

Mujdei

Oyster

Peanut

Pistou

Remoulade

Salsa golf

Salsa macha

Salsa verde

Satsivi

Tartar

Tatbila

Teriyaki

Tiparos

Tkemali

Tomato

Vincotto

Zingara

Baba ghanoush

Chile con queso

Garlic chive flower sauce

Guacamole

Honey dill

Hummus

Muhammara

Nam chim

Nam phrik

Nước chấm

Skyronnes

Sweet chili

Tzatziki

Atchara

Cheong

Chutney Green mango chutney

Green mango chutney

Curtido

Encurtido

Fruit preserves

Horseradish

Ljutenica

Pepper jelly

Piccalilli

Pickled cucumber

Pickled fruit

Relish Chicago-style relish

Chicago-style relish

Sauerkraut

Kimchi

Sumbala

Taba ng talangka

Tomato jam

Varenye

Watermelon rind preserves

Anchovy paste

Bagoong

Biber salçası

Beurre maître d'hôtel

Chili paste

Chrain

Coconut jam

Fish paste

Gochujang

Liver spread

Kyopolou

Malidzano

Meat extract Bovril

Bovril

Nut butter

Palapa

Pindjur

Roe Caviar

Caviar

Sahawiq

Wasabi

Yeast extract Marmite Vegemite

Marmite

Vegemite

Zacuscă

Halford Leicestershire Table Sauce

Mustard

Perilla

Salmoriglio

Sesame

Soy sauce Soup soy sauce Sweet soy sauce Toyomansi

Soup soy sauce

Sweet soy sauce

Toyomansi

Worcestershire sauce Tonkatsu sauce

Tonkatsu sauce

Asín tibuok

Chipotle

Crushed red pepper

Gomashio

Nutritional yeast

Paprika

Popcorn seasoning

Salt and pepper

Za'atar

Carolina style

Coleslaw

Kachumbari

Kachumber

Salsa Pico de gallo Salsa criolla

Pico de gallo

Salsa criolla

Blue cheese

French

Ginger

Green goddess

Italian

Mayfair salad

Russian

Salad cream

Tahini

Thousand Island

Vinaigrette Wafu

Banana

Mushroom

Tomato

Karashi

Kasundi

Mostarda

Spicy brown Creole

Creole

Tecuci

Tewkesbury

Turun sinappi

Yellow

Apple cider

Balsamic Balsamic vinegar of Modena

Balsamic vinegar of Modena

Kaong palm

Nipa palm

Accompaniments to french fries

Brand name condiments

Chutneys

Fish pastes

Fish sauces

Indian condiments

Indonesian condiments

Japanese condiments

Mayonnaises

Mustard brands

Hot sauces

Pakistani condiments

Philippine condiments

Pickled foods

Cruet-stand

Sachet

Salt and pepper shakers

Soy sauce fish

Squeeze bottle

Chahan

Curry Katsu curry

Katsu curry

Glutinous

Hatsuga genmai

Donmono Chūkadon Gyūdon Katsudon Oyakodon Tekkadon Tenshindon Unadon

Chūkadon

Gyūdon

Katsudon

Oyakodon

Tekkadon

Tenshindon

Unadon

Hayashi rice

Onigiri Tenmusu

Tenmusu

Omurice

Sushi History Sustainable

History

Sustainable

Sekihan

Takikomi

Harusame

Hiyamugi

Hiyashi chūka

Ramen Champon Kagoshima Muroran curry Tantan-men Tonkotsu Tsukemen

Champon

Kagoshima

Muroran curry

Tantan-men

Tonkotsu

Tsukemen

Shirataki

Okinawa soba Soki

Sōmen Salad

Udon Yakiudon

Yakiudon

Yakisoba

Monjayaki

Okonomiyaki Hirayachi

Hirayachi

Takoyaki

Melonpan

Milk bread

Yudane

Agedashi dōfu

Agemono Furai Karaage Korokke Kushikatsu Satsuma-age Tempura

Karaage

Korokke

Kushikatsu

Satsuma-age

Tempura

Chawanmushi

Chikuzenni

Kabayaki

Kakuni

Kushiyaki

Nabemono

Namasu

Nikujaga

Onsen tamago

Sashimi Fugusashi

Fugusashi

Shabu-shabu

Shiokara

Sukiyaki

Tamagoyaki

Tokoroten

Tonkatsu

Tororo

Tsukemono Nukazuke Takuan

Nukazuke

Takuan

Tsukudani

Tsukune

Yakiniku

Yakitori

Tonjiru

Kenchin-jiru

Miso soup

Suimono [ja]

Bento Ekiben Kyaraben Makunouchi Wappameshi

Ekiben

Kyaraben

Makunouchi

Wappameshi

Honzen-ryōri

Jūbako

Kaiseki

Osechi

Sake Amazake Nigori Toso

Amazake

Nigori

Shōchū Awamori Habushu Umeshu

Awamori

Habushu

Umeshu

Green tea History Bancha Gyokuro Hōjicha Kabuse Kukicha Matcha Matcha latte Sencha Uji

History

Bancha

Gyokuro

Hōjicha

Kabuse

Kukicha

Matcha Matcha latte

Matcha latte

Sencha

Herbal teas Genmaicha Sobacha Kombu-cha Mugicha

Genmaicha

Sobacha

Kombu-cha

Mugicha

Ramune

Aojiru

C.C. Lemon

Calpis

Canned coffee Boss Georgia

Georgia

Energy drinks Lipovitan Oronamin C

Lipovitan

Oronamin C

Sports drinks Aquarius Pocari Sweat

Aquarius

Pocari Sweat

Yakult

Amanattō

Botan Rice Candy

Daifuku

Dango Chichi Kibi

Chichi

Dorayaki

Karukan

Konpeitō

Mochi Agemochi Goheimochi Kankoro Kuzumochi Zunda-mochi

Agemochi

Goheimochi

Kankoro

Kuzumochi

Zunda-mochi

Senbei Arare

Shiruko

Taiyaki

Warabimochi

Square watermelon

Yubari King

Ruby Roman

Shine Muscat

Aonori

Bamboo shoot

Beni shōga

Burdock

Daikon Sakurajima

Sakurajima

Fish Kamaboko Mentaiko / tarako Surimi Tobiko

Kamaboko

Mentaiko / tarako

Surimi

Tobiko

Hijiki

Kanzuri

Karashi

Katsuobushi

Konnyaku

Kuromitsu

Kuzuko

Mayonnaise

Mushrooms Enokitake Matsutake Shiitake

Enokitake

Matsutake

Shiitake

Sake kasu

Sansyō

Sauce Ponzu Soy Tare Tonkatsu Worcestershire

Tonkatsu

Worcestershire

Sesame oil

Shichimi

Tenkasu

Umeboshi

Wasabi

Yuzu Yuzu koshō

Yuzu koshō

Chawan

Chopsticks

Kitchen knife Deba bōchō Gyuto Maguro bōchō Nakiri bōchō Santoku Sashimi bōchō Usuba bōchō Yanagi ba

Deba bōchō

Maguro bōchō

Nakiri bōchō

Santoku

Sashimi bōchō

Usuba bōchō

Yanagi ba

Rice cooker

Shamoji

Suribachi

Dishes Ramen Soups and stews

Soups and stews

Sushi and sashimi ingredients

Chinmi

Ichijū-sansai

Itameshi

Omakase

Teppanyaki

Tokusanhin

Teriyaki

Customs and etiquette

Okinawan cuisine

Category

# Gochujang


Cookbook: Gochujang

Media: Gochujang

Bap Bibimbap Bokkeum-bap Gukbap

Bibimbap

Bokkeum-bap

Gukbap

Juk Mieum

Guksu Naengmyeon

Naengmyeon

Jangajji

Jeotgal

Kimchi Baek-kimchi Dongchimi Kkakdugi Nabak-kimchi

Baek-kimchi

Dongchimi

Kkakdugi

Nabak-kimchi

Soups and stews

Jeongol

Jijimi

Jjigae

Banchan

Bokkeum

Buchimgae Jeon

Jokpyeon

Pyeonyuk

Gwapyeon

Jeonggwa

Kkultarae

Suksilgwa

Yakbap

Yeotgangjeong

Yugwa Gangjeong Hangwa

Gangjeong

Hangwa

Yumilgwa Mandugwa Taraegwa Yakgwa

Mandugwa

Taraegwa

Yakgwa

Baekseolgi

Bupyeon

Gyeongdan

Injeolmi

Jeolpyeon

Jeungpyeon

Mujigae-tteok

Siru-tteok

Songpyeon

Hwachae

Sikhye

Sul (alcoholic drinks)

Sujeonggwa

Doenjang

Ganjang Gukganjang Eoganjang

Gukganjang

Eoganjang

Gochujang

Cheong

Mustard sauce

Oil Perilla oil Sesame oil

Perilla oil

Sesame oil

Ssamjang

Vinegar Persimmon vinegar Rice vinegar

Persimmon vinegar

Rice vinegar

Dolsot

Ttukbaegi

Gamasot

Kimchi Field Museum

Kimchi refrigerator

List of Korean dishes

North Korean cuisine

Korean regional cuisine

Korean Chinese cuisine

Korean royal court cuisine

Korean barbecue

Gochujang or red chili paste is a savory, sweet, and spicy fermented condiment popular in Korean cooking. It is made from gochugaru (red chili powder), chapssal (glutinous rice), meju (fermented soybean) powder, yeotgireum (barley malt powder), and salt. The sweetness comes from the starch of cooked glutinous rice, cultured with saccharifying enzymes during the fermentation process. Traditionally, it would be naturally fermented over years in jangdok (earthenware) on an elevated stone platform called jangdokdae in the backyard.

History

Shiyi xinjian (食醫心鑑), a mid-9th century Chinese document, recorded the Korean pepper paste as 苦椒醬 (pinyin: kǔ jiāo jiàng, lit. 'pepper paste'). The second-oldest documentation of pepper paste is found in the 1433 Korean book Collected Prescriptions of Native Korean Medicines. Pepper paste is again mentioned in a 1445 medical encyclopedia named Compendia of Medical Prescriptions. However, all these sources are from the time before the actual chili peppers were introduced to Korea.

Chili peppers, which originated in the Americas, were introduced to East Asia by Portuguese traders in the early 16th century. There is mention of a type of chili pepper brought to Korea found in Collected Essays of Jibong, an encyclopedia published in 1614. Farm Management, a book from c. 1700, discussed the cultivation methods of chili peppers.

The history of Sunchang gochujang as a regional specialty dates back to the 14th century, at the start of the Joseon Dynasty (1392–1910), when the founder Yi Seong-gye made gochujang from the Sunchang region a part of Korean palace cuisine.

When Yi Seong-gye, who went on to become the founder and first king of Joseon as King Taejo, was on a trip to Manilsa Temple to pray to the mountain god, he is said to have eaten a bowl of barley bibimbab (spicy mixed rice with vegetables) with gochujang that he found unforgettably delicious. He loved it so much that he ordered it served to the royal family when he became king. Thus Sunchang gochujang gained fame as a regional specialty.

In the 18th-century books, Somun saseol (소문사설; 謏聞事說) and Revised and Augmented Farm Management, gochujang is written as gochojang, using hanja characters 苦椒醬 and 古椒醬. It is also mentioned that Sunchang County was renowned for its gochujang production. China and Japan, the countries with which Korea has historically shared the most culture and trade, do not include gochujang in their traditional cuisines.[citation needed]

Historical recipes

Gochujang ingredients reported in Jeungbo sallim gyeongje were 18 litres (19 US quarts) of powdered and sieved meju (fermented soybeans), 540 mL (18+1⁄2 US fl oz) of chili powder, and 1.8 L (1+7⁄8 U.S. qt) of glutinous rice flour, as well as soup soy sauce for adjusting the consistency. The gochujang recipe in Gyuhap chongseo, an 1809 cookbook, uses powdered meju made from 18 L (19 US qt) of soybeans and 3.6 L (3+3⁄4 US qt) of glutinous rice, then adding 900–1,260 mL (30+1⁄2–42+1⁄2 US fl oz) of chili powder and bap made from 3.6 L (3.8 US qt) of glutinous rice.

Ingredients

Gochujang's primary ingredients are red chili powder (고추가루; gochugaru), glutinous rice powder, powdered fermented soybeans, and salt. Korean chili peppers, of the species Capsicum annuum, are spicy yet sweet, making them ideal for gochujang production. Gochujang is typically made from 25% red pepper powder, 22.2% glutinous rice, 5.5% meju powder (60% cooked soybeans and 40% non-glutinous rice), 12.8% salt, 5% malt, and 29% water.

Other recipes use glutinous rice (찹쌀; chapssal), normal short-grain rice (맵쌀; mepssal), or barley. Less common additions include whole wheat kernels, jujubes, pumpkin, and sweet potato. A small amount of sweetener, such as sugar, syrup, or honey, is also sometimes added. The finished product is a dark red paste, with a rich, piquant flavor.

The making of gochujang at home began tapering off when commercial production came into the mass market in the early 1970s. Now, most Koreans purchase gochujang at grocery stores or markets. It is still used extensively in Korean cooking to flavor stews (jjigae), such as in gochujang jjigae; to marinate meat, such as in gochujang bulgogi; and as a condiment for naengmyeon and bibimbap.

Gochujang is also used as a base for making other condiments, such as chogochujang (초고추장) and ssamjang (쌈장). Chogochujang is a variant of gochujang made by adding vinegar and other seasonings, such as sugar and sesame seeds. It is usually used as a sauce for hoe and hoedeopbap. Similarly, ssamjang is a mixture of mainly gochujang and doenjang, with chopped onions and other spicy seasonings, and it is popular with sangchussam (상추쌈).

Gochujang hot-taste unit

Gochujang hot-taste unit (GHU) is a unit of measurement for the pungency (spicy heat) of gochujang, based on the gas chromatography and the high-performance liquid chromatography of capsaicin and dihydrocapsaicin concentrations.

Gochujang products are assigned to one of the five levels of spiciness: Mild, Slight Hot, Medium Hot, Very Hot, and Extreme Hot.

Gochujang is used in various dishes such as bibimbap and tteokbokki, and in salads, stews, soups, and marinated meat dishes. Gochujang may make dishes spicier (depending on the capsaicin in the base chili), but also can make them sweeter and smokier.

Further reading

Erin Craig (19 Aug 2020). "Gochujang: The trendy Korean food that burns". BBC Travel. Retrieved 31 May 2023.

See also

Korea portal

Food portal

Doenjang

Ssamjang

Chili pepper paste

Biber salçası

Filfel chuma

Harissa

Jeow bong

Doubanjiang

Sambal

Sriracha

Yuzukoshō

Fermented bean paste

Ají (sauce)

^ UK: /ˈɡoʊtʃuːdʒæŋ, ˈkɔːtʃuːdʒæŋ/ GOH-choo-jang, KAW-choo-jang, US: /ˈɡoʊtʃuːdʒɑːŋ/ GOH-choo-jahng; Korean: 고추장, IPA: [kotɕʰudʑaŋ].

References

^ "gochujang". OxfordDictionaries.com. Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on April 16, 2017. Retrieved 15 April 2017.

^ a b "gochujang". Cambridge Dictionaries (Online). Cambridge University Press. n.d.

^ National Institute of Korean Language (30 July 2014). 주요 한식명(200개) 로마자 표기 및 번역(영, 중, 일) 표준안 (PDF) (in Korean). Archived from the original (PDF) on 23 January 2019. Retrieved 25 February 2017. 주요 한식명 로마자 표기 및 표준 번역 확정안 공지. National Institute of Korean Language (in Korean). 2014-05-02.

주요 한식명 로마자 표기 및 표준 번역 확정안 공지. National Institute of Korean Language (in Korean). 2014-05-02.

^ "gochujang" 고추장. Doopedia (in Korean). Doosan Corporation. Retrieved 17 April 2017.

^ Kim, Soon-Hee; Chung, Kyung Rhan; Yang, Hye-Jeong; Kwon, Dae Young (2016). "Sunchang gochujang (Korean red chili paste): The unfolding of authenticity". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 3 (3): 201–208. doi:10.1016/j.jef.2016.09.002.

^ Kwon, Dae Young; Chung, Kyung Rhan; Yang, Hye-Jeong; Jang, Dai-Ja (2015). "Gochujang (Korean red pepper paste): A Korean ethnic sauce, its role and history". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 2 (1): 29–35. doi:10.1016/j.jef.2015.02.006.

^ Guide to Korean Culture: Korea's cultural heritage (2015 ed.). Seoul: Korean Culture and Information Service, Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism. 2015 [1995]. pp. 131–133. ISBN 9788973755714.

^ Park, Jae Bok (Spring 1999). "Red Pepper and Kimchi in Korea" (PDF). Chile Pepper Institute Newsletter. Vol. 8, no. 1. p. 3. Archived from the original (PDF) on 7 October 2018. Retrieved 20 March 2017.

^ Marianski, Stanley; Marianski, Adam (2012). Sauerkraut, Kimchi, Pickles & Relishes. Seminole, FL: Bookmagic. p. 45. ISBN 9780983697329.

^ Hui, Y. H.; Ghazala, Sue; Graham, Dee M.; Murrell, K. D.; Nip, Wai-Kit, eds. (2004). Handbook of Vegetable Preservation and Processing. New York: Marcel Dekker. pp. 190–191. ISBN 978-0824743017.

^ Yi, Sugwang. Chibong yusŏl 지봉유설(芝峯類說) 지봉유설 [Topical Discourses of Jibong] (in Korean). Joseon Korea – via Wikisource.

^ Hong, Manseon. Sallim gyeongje 산림경제(山林經濟) [Farm Management] (in Literary Chinese). Joseon Korea. Archived from the original on 2017-03-28 – via DB of Korean classics by ITKC.

^ "Focus". Korean Culture and Information Service (in Korean). Retrieved 2024-05-18.

^ a b Yi, Sipil; Yi, Pyo (1940) [1722]. Somun saseol 소문사설(謏問事說) (in Literary Chinese). Joseon Korea.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)

^ a b Yu, Jungrim; Hong, Manseon (1766). Jeungbo sallim gyeongje 증보산림경제(增補山林經濟) [Revised and Augmented Farm Management] (in Literary Chinese). Joseon Korea.

^ Yi, Bingheogak (1809). Gyuhap chongseo 규합총서(閨閤叢書) [Women's Encyclopedia] (in Literary Chinese). Joseon Korea.

^ Shurtleff, William; Aoyagi, Akiko (2021). History of Koji - Grains and/or Soybeans Enrobed in a Mold Culture (300 BCE to 2021) Extensively Annotated Bibliography and Sourcebook. Soyinfo Center. p. 743. ISBN 9781948436564.

^ Shin, Donghwa; Jeong, Doyoun (March 2015). "Korean traditional fermented soybean products: Jang". Journal of Ethnic Foods. 2 (1): 2–7. doi:10.1016/j.jef.2015.02.002.

^ a b National Agricultural Products Quality Management Service (September 2016). "Jeontong sikpum pyojun gyugyeok" 전통식품 표준규격 (PDF). Korean Standards & Certifications (in Korean). Korean Agency for Technology and Standards. pp. 88–89. Retrieved 17 April 2017.

^ "Gochujang (Hot Pepper Paste)". VisitKorea.or.kr.org. Archived from the original on 12 November 2014. Retrieved 19 April 2013.

Bibimbap

Gimbap

Hoe-deopbap

Nurungji

Ogok-bap

Patbap

Kongbap

Bokkeum-bap

Jumeok-bap

Yaksik

Ssambap

Gukbap

Bulgogi

Galbi Dak-galbi

Dak-galbi

Samgyeopsal

Makchang

Galbijjim

Andong jjimdak

Gyeran-jjim

Agwi-jjim

Sannakji

Yukhoe

Sukhoe

Ganghoe

Kongnamul

Chwinamul

Jangajji

Saengchae

Golbaengi-muchim

Japchae

Pajeon

Kimchi-buchimgae

Bindae-tteok

Aehobakbuchimgae

Myeolchi

Ojingeo

Hanchi

Myeongnan

Gejang

Tteokguk

Haejang-guk

Miyeok-guk

Mandu-guk

Yukgaejang

Gukbap Gul-gukbap Dwaeji-gukbap

Gul-gukbap

Dwaeji-gukbap

Dak-hanmari

Seonjit-guk

Tang Bosintang Chueotang Dak-bokkeum-tang Galbitang Gamjatang Maeuntang Oritang Samgyetang Seolleongtang Yeonpo-tang

Bosintang

Chueotang

Dak-bokkeum-tang

Galbitang

Gamjatang

Maeuntang

Oritang

Samgyetang

Seolleongtang

Yeonpo-tang

Jijimi

Jjigae Doenjang-jjigae Cheonggukjang-jjigae Kimchi-jjigae Sundubu-jjigae Saeujeot-jjigae Budae-jjigae

Doenjang-jjigae

Cheonggukjang-jjigae

Kimchi-jjigae

Sundubu-jjigae

Saeujeot-jjigae

Budae-jjigae

Sinseollo

Jeongol Gopchang jeongol

Gopchang jeongol

Gamja-ongsimi

Naengmyeon

Milmyeon

Jjolmyeon

Japchae

Jajangmyeon

Jjamppong

Bibim-guksu

Sujebi

Janchi-guksu

Kal-guksu

Mak-guksu

Jat-guksu

Kong-guksu

Ramyeon

Jjapaguri

Gogi-guksu

Garak-guksu

Baechu-kimchi

Baek-kimchi

Dongchimi

Nabak-kimchi

Kkakdugi

Pa-kimchi

Yeolmu-kimchi

Gat-kimchi

Geotjeori

Tteokbokki

Sundae

Myeongtae

Korean Fried Chicken

Buldak

Hotteok

Jjinppang

Hoppang

Beondegi

Bungeoppang

Gyeranppang

Hangwa

Tteok Chapssaltteok Songpyeon Yaksik

Chapssaltteok

Songpyeon

Yaksik

Mandu Kimchi mandu Eo-mandu

Kimchi mandu

Eo-mandu

Bokkeum

Anju Jokbal Jokpyeon Pyeonyuk

Jokbal

Jokpyeon

Pyeonyuk

Makgeolli

Cheongju

Dansul

Baekse-ju

Green tea

Insam-cha

Saenggang-cha

Sujeonggwa

Sikhye

Yuja-cha

Bori-cha

Oksusu-cha

Hyeonmi-cha

Sungnyung

Yulmu-cha

Misutgaru

Ambasa

Dalgona coffee

Hangover drinks

Sikhye

Hwachae

Sujeonggwa

Sinseollo

Gujeolpan

Jangguk-juk

Jatjuk

Jeho-tang

Neobiani

Onjium

Baesuk

Tangpyeong-chae

Tarak-juk

Tteok-galbi

Wolgwa-chae

Yuja-hwachae

Jjinppang

Hoppang

Hotteok

Bungeoppang

Gukhwa-ppang

Gyeranppang

Soboro-ppang

Soy sauce Soup soy sauce

Soup soy sauce

Persimmon vinegar

Rice vinegar

Doenjang

Gochujang

Ssamjang

Cheong

Dishes Jeju dishes Seoul dishes

Jeju dishes

Seoul dishes

Ingredients

Bunsik

Beer in South Korea

Street food in South Korea

List of oldest restaurants in South Korea

Category

Blair's Death

Buffalo

Cholula

D'Elidas

Dave's Insanity

Dog-Gone

El Yucateco

Frank's RedHot

Louisiana Crystal Texas Pete

Crystal

Texas Pete

Mad Dog

Marie Sharp's

Pickapeppa

Piri piri

Ro-Tel

Sriracha Huy Fong

Huy Fong

Tabasco

Tapatío

Trappey's

Valentina

Ajilimójili

Ajvar Ljutenica Pindjur

Ljutenica

Pindjur

Chile con queso

Chili pepper water

Chilli vinegar

Colo-colo

Dabu-dabu

Erős Pista

Katara

Kōrēgusu

Lao Gan Ma

Llajwa

Mojito isleño

Muhammara

Nam phrik long ruea num

long ruea

Pepper jelly

Salsa pico de gallo roja macha verde

pico de gallo

Sambal Tuktuk

Tuktuk

Sweet chili sauce

Sriracha

Tatbila

Chili oil

Biber salçası

Doubanjiang

Gochujang

Harissa

Jeow bong

Kanzuri

Nam phrik phao

Pilpelchuma

Sambal

Shatta

List of hot sauces

# Korean regional cuisine


Korean regional cuisines are characterized by local specialties and distinctive styles within Korean cuisine. The divisions reflected historical boundaries of the provinces where these food and culinary traditions were preserved until modern times.

Although Korea has been divided into two nation-states since 1948 (North Korea and South Korea), it was once divided into eight provinces according to the administrative districts of the Joseon period. The northern region consisted of the Hamgyong, Pyongan, and Hwanghae Provinces. The central region consisted of the Gyeonggi, Chungcheong, and Kangwon provinces. The Gyeongsang and Jeolla Provinces made up the southern region.

Until the late 19th century transportation networks were not well developed, and each provincial region preserved its own characteristic tastes and cooking methods. Geographic differences are also reflected by the local specialty foodstuffs depending on the climate and types of agriculture, as well as the natural foods available. With the modern development of transportation, and the introduction of foreign foods, Korean regional cuisines have tended to overlap and integrate. However, there are still many unique traditional dishes in Korean regional cuisine that have been handed down through the generations.

Northern region

Pyongan province

Pyongan cuisine, based in Pyongan Province, is characterized as a continental style due to early Manchurian influence. Dishes are made into large shapes so as to appear abundant. Jobap, a bowl of mixed steamed rice and millet, is commonly served in place of ssalbap (steamed rice), and foods made with grain flour such as noodle dishes, especially naengmyeon (cold buckwheat noodles), and mandu (dumplings) are common Pyongan dishes. The cuisine's taste is generally bland, with fatty foods being enjoyed during winter. The form of a Pyongan meal is realistic and social. The kimchi, or preserved pickled vegetables, eaten in the region consist mostly of dongchimi, a water kimchi, which is frequently used as a broth for naengmyeon.

Representative main dishes include gukbap (a soup with rice), kimchi mari (cold kimchi broth with rice), dakjuk (chicken porridge), Pyongyang naengmyeon (cold buckwheat noodle soup), eobok jaengban (pressed beef served in a brass plate), gangnyang guksu (corn noodles in a cold broth), Pyongyang manduguk (Pyongyang style dumpling soup), and gulmandu (small dumpling without a covering).

Pyongan style banchan, which are small side dishes accompanied by a main dish, include: ttokttoki jaban (seasoned shredded beef), mucheonggom (braised radish leaves and beef), deopuljang (fermented soybean paste), danggochujang bokkeum (stir-fried dish in chili pepper paste), dwaeji gogijeon (pork pancakes), naengchae (cold salad), Yongpyon gimjang kimchi (Yongbyon style kimchi), gaji kimchi (pickled eggplant), baek kimchi (kimchi without chili pepper), and kkotge jjim (steamed horse crab). Oi tojangguk (cucumber soybean paste soup), and naepotang (kimchi and chitterling stew) are representative soups and stews.

Tteok or glutinous rice cakes of the region are given unconventional names and are larger and simpler in form than those of Seoul, such as songgi tteok which is a rice cake made with the inner bark of pine trees, golmi tteok (thimble-shaped rice cake), kkojang tteok (tteok covered with steamed bean crumbles), ppong tteok (tteok steamed with mulberry leaves), nidoraemi (rice cake covered with azuki bean crumbles), and jogae songpyeon (clam-shaped tteok with fillings). The songgi in songgi tteok refers to the inner bark of pine trees, and its ground flour is mixed with glutinous rice flour and kneaded. The dough is steamed or filled with ground pine nuts and then pan-fried with sesame oil. Notti is another characteristic tteok of Pyongan and Hwanghae provinces, made by pounding a saccharified dough of hulled millet flour, and pan-frying its pieces with oil.

Pyongan hangwa or traditional confectionery are gwajul (fried honeyed confection) and yeot (candies). Taesik is also a variety of the regional hangwa, made by mixing jocheong (liquefied yeot) and misu (steamed and dried mixed flour made from various grains and beans).

Mul naengmyeon or Pyongyang naengmyeon (cold buckwheat noodle soup) and mandu (stuffed dumplings).

Manduguk, dumpling soup

Dongchimi, a water kimchi

Baek kimchi, kimchi seasoned without chili pepper powder.

Mujigae tteok, rainbow rice cake

Pyongyang

Pyongyang, currently the capital of North Korea, was also the capital of Gojoseon, and the provincial capital of Pyongan province until 1946. Therefore, Pyongyang cuisine shares the general culinary tradition of Pyongan province. The most famous local food is Pyongyang naengmyeon, also called mul naengmyeon or just simply naengmyeon. Naengmyeon literally means "cold noodles," while the affix mul refers to "water" because the dish is served in a cold soup. Naengmyeon consists of thin and chewy buckwheat noodles in cold broth mixed with a meat broth, and dongchimi (watery kimchi) topped with a slice of sweet Korean pear. Pyongyang naengmyeon was originally eaten at homes built with ondol (traditional underfloor heating) during the cold winter, so is also humorously called "Pyongyang deoldeori" (shivering in Pyongyang). Pyongyang locals sometimes enjoyed it as a haejangguk which is any type of food eaten as a hangover cure— commonly in the form of a warm soup.

Another representative Pyongyang dish is Taedonggang sungeoguk, meaning "trout soup from the Taedong River". It is made with trout, which are abundant in the Taedong River, along with black peppercorns and salt. It is served as a courtesy to important guests visiting Pyongyang. Therefore, the question "How good was the taste of the trout soup?" is commonly used to greet people returning from Pyongyang. In addition, Pyongyang onban (literally "warm rice of Pyongyang") is a local specialty. It is a dish made with freshly cooked rice topped with sliced mushrooms and chicken, and a couple of bindaetteok (pancakes made from ground mung beans and vegetables).

Hamgyong province

Hamgyong province, consisting of North and South Hamgyong Provinces, belongs to the administration of North Korea. It lies in the far northern region of the Korean peninsula, comprising steep mountains and valleys while facing the Sea of Japan (East Sea) to the east. Cereal crop farming is developed in the region, so diverse types of high quality cereals such as millet, barnyard millet, sorghum, soybeans, and maize are harvested. In contrast with millet, and sorghum harvested in South Korea, those of Hamgyon provinces have a more glutinous texture, and have good, savory tastes. The quality of potatoes and grains is also high, so the starch obtained from the crops is used to make noodles. Fresh Alaska pollack and various fish are caught in the adjacent sea.

Although Hamgyong cuisine is not salty, garlic and chili pepper are used heavily as seasonings. The alternative name, dadegi, for chili powder-based sauce originates from the region. Hamhung naengmyeon, a cold noodle dish, is made with the sauce. It originates in Hamhung, South Hamgyong province, and is topped with hoe (sliced raw fish) seasoned with hot and spicy sauce. The noodles are mixed with the hoe and sauce, so called hoe naengmyeon, which is different from naengmyeon eaten in the rest of North Korea. However, the taste of North Hamgyong province is plainer and less spicy than that of South Hamgyong province. The shape is large and a continental style, so decoration of dishes is simple and less luxurious. The locals are active, and enjoy wild foods.

Typical main dishes in Hamgyong cuisine include: japgokbap (a bowl of cooked mixed multiple grains), jjinjobap (steamed sorghum), dak bibimbap (mixed rice and vegetables with chicken slices), eollin kongjuk (porridge made with frozen soybeans), and oksusujuk (corn porridge). Garitguk is a beef short rib soup topped with yukhoe, raw seasoned beef. Along with Hamhung naengmyeon, Mul naengmyeon, and gamja guksu (potato noodles) are common noodle dishes. Gamja makgari mandu is a dumpling made with ground potato.

Hoe naengmyeon, hot and spicy cold buckwheat noodles with hoe (raw fish).

Sundae, blood sausage

Dubujeon, tofu pancake

Myeongran jeot, seasoned Alaska pollack roe.

Injeolmi, glutinous rice cake covered with steamed bean powder

Chagang and Ryanggang provinces

The Ryanggang Province and Chagang Provinces of North Korea were formerly part of Hamgyong province and Pyongan province until 1954. The two mountainous, landlocked provinces border China to the north. Indian mustard leaves, called gat in Korean, are cultivated in place of Napa cabbage, a main kimchi ingredient, which does not grow well in the region due to poor geographic conditions. Indian mustard leaves have been eaten in spring and autumn as a main vegetable since ancient times, and are used for making gat kimchi to preserve for winter. Gat kimchi has a refreshing and aromatic flavor, which can be retained without loss of texture for a long time. Therefore, gat kimchi is the most famous food representing the provinces. On the other hand, potatoes are also harvested in abundance, so dishes made with potatoes are diversely developed, with up to 80 distinct potato dishes. Representative potato dishes include: gamja nongmal guksu, a noodle dish made with potato starch; gamja tteok, a variety of tteok made with ground potato; gamajatang jorim made by braising potatoes;, and gamja nongmal gangjeong, a fried confectionery made with potato starch. Gamja nongma guksu has a very strong chewy texture because the main ingredient is the potato starch. The noodles are seasoned with chopped green onions, garlic, sesame seeds, soy sauce, and a mixture of sesame seeds and salt. Slices of kimchi, marinated and steamed beef and pork, and shredded cucumbers are added as toppings on the noodles. A broth is served separately.

Susutteok is a local specialty of Chagang province, made with locally produced sorghum, glutinous corn, soybeans, sesame seeds, and azuki beans. It is served with kimchi and namul (sauteed vegetables) collected from the mountains. Various foods made of sorghum can also be found in the province such as susu jijim (sorghum pancakes). In the province, there is a variety of mountain fruits.

Central region

Hwanghae province

Hwanghae Province has been divided into South Hwanghae Province and North Hwanghae Province since 1954. Thanks to the wide Yonbaek and Chaenyong plains, Hwanghae province is a granary of North Korea and is known for its good quality cereal production. As the millet seeds produced in the region are thick, and have a good taste, they are eaten as much as barley is consumed by people of the southern region. The abundant production of cereal crops provides quality feed for livestock, so the quality of meat produced in the region is said to be good. Chicken raised in every household is fleshy and of good quality, and is used for many dishes in Hwanghae cuisine. It is used as an ingredient for wheat noodle dishes, and mandu (dumplings). The coastal area, adjacent to the Yellow Sea, produces a lot of salt because the tideland in the area is developed and there is little rainfall. Due to the climate, kimchi in the Hwanghae region has a clear and refreshing taste, so its brine is used as a soup on many occasions. Dongchimi brine is used as a broth for naengmyeon (cold buckwheat noodle dish), or for mixing with a bowl of chilled rice to make a midnight snack. The Hwanghae people are known for kindheartedness and rustic simplicity, so their cuisine reflects their nature. Hwanghae dishes are savory and simple, with less decoration such as mandu made in a larger size than other regions. The general taste is moderate, similar to that of Chungcheong province.

The most famous Hwanghae dish is Haeju bibimbap, originating in Haeju. It consists of fried rice with chopped pork, various namul (sauteed vegetables), and sliced chicken, unlike other bibimbap varieties. It uses black soy sauce on slightly fried and salted rice instead of Gochujang. Other typical main dishes are ssalbap (steamed rice), seariban (three steamed grains), japgokbap (various steamed grains), kimchibap (steamed rice with kimchi), and bijibap (rice with biji, residue in the preparation of tofu).

Japgokbap, rice with multiple grains

Sundubu jjigae, spicy soft tofu stew

Bindaetteok, mung bean pancake

Cheongpomuk, seasoned mung bean starch jelly

Gangwon/Kangwon province

Gangwon (or Kangwon) cuisine is simple and plain and consists of dishes made with potato, corn, buckwheat, or seafood. Typical main dishes are also based on potatoes and maize with various cooking methods such as Chuncheon dakgalbi, gangnaengi bap (a bowl of steamed corn and rice), makguksu (buckwheat noodle dish), patguksu (noodles in red bean soup), gamja ongsimi (potato dumpling soup), bangpungjuk (porridge made with Glehnia littoralis), gangnaengi beombeok (mashed boiled corn with grains), and gamja beombeok (mashed boiled potato with grains).

Makguksu, cold buckwheat noodles

A bowl of gamja ongsimi (potato dumpling soup).

Ojingeo sundae, a variety of sundae (stuffed blood sausage), made with squid and various ingredients

Gamjajeon, potato pancake

Kaesong

As Kaesong was the capital of Goryeo for almost 500 years, its culinary culture was highly developed. The luxurious style of Kaesong cuisine is frequently compared with those of Seoul and Jeolla Province. Kaesong cuisine was traditionally treated as part of Gyeonggi cuisine, since Kaesong belonged to Gyeonggi province until the Korean War. However, it was incorporated into the administration of North Korea after the war while Gyeonggi province is administered by South Korea. Bossam kimchi (wrapped kimchi), pyeonsu (summer mandu in square shape), sinseollo (royal casserole), seolleongtang (beef tripe soup), chueotang (mudfish soup), joraengi tteokguk (dumpling soup), umegi (tteok covered with syrup), and gyeongdan (ball-shaped tteok) are representative Kaesong dishes. Umegi, also called Kaesong juak, is a holiday food of Kaesong, and known for its delicate style with a sweet and nutty taste. The dish is made by kneading a mixture of rice flour and glutinous rice flour with warm water, then shaping the dough into balls with either one pine nut or jujube, then frying and coating them with syrup.

A traditional Kaesong meal.

Kaesong bossam kimchi

Various gyeongdan, ball-shaped tteok.

Gyeonggi province

Geographically, Gyeonggi province is located in the central region of the Korean peninsula. Until the Korean War it included Kaesong, the old capital of Goryeo. Mountain vegetables are obtained from those surrounding Seoul, while fish and seafood are harvested from the Yellow Sea, located to the west. In Gyeonggi cuisine, jeotgal (fermented salted seafood) is abundant, and among them jogijeot (made with croaker) and saeujeot (made with small shrimp) are often used as ingredients in kimchi. The climate is relatively mild, and various types of cereal crops are harvested, so dishes made with grain crops are especially developed. Ogokbap (steamed five cereal crops), and chalbap (steamed glutinous rice) are enjoyed as main dishes. Although the province borders Seoul, its cuisine is generally simple, and its flavors and use of seasonings are moderate except in Kaesong cuisine. Due to the sophisticated culinary culture, and diverse dishes, Kaesong's cuisine is often compared with Seoul's cuisine and Korean royal court cuisine. Since Gyeonggi province borders the provinces of Gangwon Province, Chungcheong, Hwanghae Province, the cuisine has much in common with the cuisines of these neighboring provinces, including flavors and naming conventions for dishes.

Savory grain dishes are numerous, and include sujebi (dumpling soup), and beombeok (thick mixed-grain porridge). They are made with either pumpkin, potato, corn, wheat flour, or azuki beans. Noodle soups such as Jemul guksu (noodles in soybean paste soup), and memilkal ssakdugi (knife-cut noodle soup) also have a thick broth and a savory taste along with a soft texture in contrast with naeongmyeon in the clear dongchimi broth eaten in the northern region. Naengkongguk (soybean soup with dumplings) is also a common dish which is also a local specialty of Chungcheong and Hwanghae provinces.

Galbi (grilled short ribs) is a famous dish in Suwon.

Suyuk, steamed meat

Samgyetang, chicken ginseng soup

Kongguksu, cold soybean noodle soup

Memilmuk muchim, memilmuk (buckwheat starch jelly) and mixed vegetables

Cuisine in the capital city of Seoul is extravagantly presented, and prepared according to strict quality rules. Meals are served in small portions and include many dishes. Their cooking uses many seasonings, but the taste is not overly spicy. Typical main dishes include: seolleongtang (beef soup with rice), gukbap (soup with rice), tteokguk (rice cake soup), heukimjajuk (black sesame porridge), jatjuk (pine nut porridge), memil mandu (dumpling with a buckwheat covering), saengchi mandu (dumpling stuffed with pheasant meat), and pyeonsu (square-shaped mandu with vegetable filling). Among them, seolleongtang is the most widely known Seoul dish, and is also popular nationwide. It is said to be strongly associated with the Seonnongdan shrine in the neighborhood of Jegi-dong, Dongdaemun District, Seoul where the kings of Korea held an annual national ritual to pray for a good harvest. After the ritual everyone gathered to eat a beef soup together, which was made by boiling beef and its tripe in dozens of gamasots (cauldrons) with water.

Representative Seoul soups or stews are: sinseollo (royal casserole), gaksaek jeongol (casserole made with various ingredients), yukgaejang (spicy beef soup with rice), Gujeolpan (nine-sectioned plate), galbijjim (braised meat short ribs), tteokjjim (boiled tteok, beef and vegetables), tteokbokki (stir-fried tteok and vegetables), braised dishes in soy sauce such as honghapcho and jeonbokcho respectively made with mussels and abalone, and gannap (beef liver pancake). Raw dishes such as gaphoe (seasoned raw beef tripe), gulhoe (raw oyster) are also part of Seoul cuisine. Pressed or dried dishes such as pyeonyuk made with ox's tongue or brisket, jokpyeon (gelatin), eochae (parboiled fish fillet), yukpo (beef jerky), suran (poached egg), sukju namul (sauteed mung bean spouts), mugeun namul bokkeum (sauteed dried various mountain vegetables), hobakseon (steamed stuffed zucchini), gimssam (wraps with gim, seaweed), maedeup jaban (fried kelp in a ribbon shape), are banchan representing Seoul cuisine. Gujeolpan and sinseollo especially demonstrate the sophisticated style of Seoul cuisine. Dried fish such as gulbi (dried salted yellow croaker), gwamegi (half-dried Pacific herring or Pacific saury), amchi (dried salted brown croaker) are grilled or pan-fried to make jeon, Korean style pancakes. Seoul cuisine has a lot of mitbanchan (basic side dishes made for preservation) such as yukpo (beef jerky), jeotgal (salted fermented seafood) and jangajji (pickles). Unique kimchi found in Seoul are jang kimchi (water kimchi seasoned with soy sauce,) and suk kkakdugi (kimchi made with parboiled radish).

During the Joseon period, the villages of Bukchon and Namchon were referred to as "Namju Byukbyeong", which literally means "Namchon for alcoholic beverages, Bukchon for tteok" (rice cakes), because tteok were made on many occasions in Seoul. There are many tteok made with high-quality ingredients, that take a lot of work to produce, in Seoul cuisine such as danja. It is usually used as a decoration for other tteok and is shaped into a ball or a square after its dough is pounded and stuffed with a sweetened filling and covered with gomul (powder coating or sliced fruits). The danja varieties are made with jujube, Artemisia princeps var. orientalis (sunflower-like plant), chestnut, yuzu (a citrus fruit), Gingko seeds, gotgam (dried persimmon), Coix lacryma-jobi var. ma-yuen (a grain), and seogi (a lichen - Umbilicaria esculenta). Other typical tteok include: duteop tteok covered with azuki bean crumbles, sangchu tteok made with lettuce, gaksaekpyeon made by adding color or flavors, neuti tteok made with young leaves of Zelkova serrata, yaksik made with nuts and jujubes, hwajeon made with flower petals, juak made by pan-frying and honey-glazing, mulhobak tteok made with pumpkin, and solbangul tteok made with pine cones.

Typical hangwa or Korean confectioneries are yakgwa, mandugwa, maejakgwa, and various types of yeotgangjeong and dasik. Both yakgwa and maejakgwa are fried pastries made with wheat flour and honey each having a distinctive shape and texture; the former with a flower pattern shape and a soft texture; the latter in a ribbon shape with a crispy texture. Mandugwa is a confectionery made by frying a dumpling filled with sweetened jujube. Yeotgangjeong, or taffy rice cracker, is covered with sesame seeds, peanuts, or ground pine nuts. Dasik is a pattern pressed cake eaten when drinking tea, made with black sesame seeds, soybean, pollen powders, chestnut, starch, rice or a mixture of wheat flour and honey.

Various hwachae (Korean punch) and teas are also part of Seoul cuisine. Hwachae is eaten cold and made with fruits (e.g. omija hwachae), edible flower petals (e.g. jindallae hwachae), tteok (e.g. wonsobyeong), steamed grains (e.g. bori sudan), or traditional medical ingredients. Examples of fruit teas are: yujacha, mogwacha, omijacha, gugijacha, and daechucha. On the other hand, typical herbal teas can be made with spices like ginger and cinnamon, herbs such as Ginseng radicle, Angelica, or grains such as Senna obtusifolia. At royal court, jehotang was considered the best summer drink. This cold drink is made with honey, water, and the powders of dried and roasted Prunus mume fruits, Amomi Semen, Sandalwood Red, and Amomum tsao-ko. Ogwacha, which literally means "five fruits", is made with walnuts, chestnuts, Gingko seeds, jujube, and ginger.

Sinseollo, royal casserole

Seolleongtang

Yukgaejang

Tangpyeongchae, shredded mung bean jelly with vegetables

Chungcheong province

Chungcheong consists of the provinces of North Chungcheong, which is landlocked, and South Chungcheong, which faces the Yellow Sea to its west. Although there are many differences between the two provinces' geographical conditions, the locals in both generally engage in agriculture as their primary occupation. The Yedang Plain, in the area adjacent to the Baengma River in South Chungcheong province provides an abundant harvest of grain crops, while the Yellow Sea is a good fishery. During the Three Kingdoms period of Korea (57 BC – 668 AD), barley and millet were the respective main dishes for the Silla kingdom (57 BC–935) and the Goguryeo kingdom (37 BC–668), whereas rice was assumed to have been the main grain for the Baekje kingdom (18 BC–660). Chungcheong province was the home province of Baekje.

Kalguksu, knife-cut noodle soup

Yukhoe, raw seasoned beef

Jeyuk bokkeum, stir-fried pork in gochujang (chili pepper paste)

Deodeok gui, grilled Codonopsis lanceolata

Pat sirutteok, steamed rice cake covered with azuki bean crumbles

Southern region

Jeolla province

The cuisine of the southwestern region of Jeolla, consisting of the provinces of North and South Jeolla, is famous for its rich and sumptuous style, comparable with Kaesong's cuisine. While Kaesong cuisine, which retains the tradition of the Goryeo Dynasty, is very conservative, Jeolla cuisine preserves a unique culinary tradition that has been handed from Yangban (noble class) of the Joseon Dynasty. Jeolla region includes the fertile Honam Plain that provides an abundant harvest of rice. The Yellow Sea and East China Sea which are adjacent to the west and east offer a variety of seafood for the table.

Jeonju bibimbap, a variety of bibimbap (mixed rice with vegetables).

Samhap (lit.three combination) consists of cooked pork, kimchi, and hongeohoe (fermented raw Raja Kenojei)

Hongeohoe chomuchim, Raja Kenojei seasoned with a sour and hot and spicy sauce

Dureup bugak (fried shoots of Aralia elata) and chal jeonbyeong (glutinous rice pancake)

Sujeonggwa, persimmon punch

Gyeongsang province

Gyeongsang cuisine is based on Gyeongsang Province, consisting of the North and South Gyeongsang Provinces. The region has a similar climate to that of Jeolla Province because both geographically border two seas—Gyeongsang province borders the Sea of Japan (East Sea) to the east, and the East China Sea to the south. However, the types of fish harvested are different. Fish are regarded as the best foodstuff in Gyeongsang cuisine. Seafood is variously cooked in the cuisine, and especially hoe (raw sliced seafood, is considered the best delicacy. Soups made with fresh fish are common in Gyeongsang province, unlike other mountainous and landlocked regions. Myeolchi jeot (fermented salted anchovies) is the most commonly prepared jeotgal (fermented salted seafood); the number of jeotgal-type dishes placed on the table for a meal is second only to those prepared in Jeolla province. The style of Gyeongsang cuisine is simple with less decoration, while various seasonings are used heavily, so the taste is even more salty and hot and spicy than Jeolla's. Diverse grains can be grown in the province and noodles are the most enjoyed dish among the foods made with grains. The locals prefer noodles with a soft texture made by mixing raw soybean powder, cut by a kitchen knife. Andong, a city that was once the center of Korea's Confucianist traditions, has a wide variety of local delicacies. Along with Andong jjimdak, it is the birthplace of heotjesabap (fake jesa food), Andong soju, salted mackerel, and a spicy variety of sikhye (a fermented rice drink).

Jinju bibimbap, a variety of bibimbap originating in Jinju

Heotjesabap, a variety of bibimbap originating in Andong

Dongnae pajeon, green scallion pancake, a local specialty of Busan.

Jaecheopguk, a clear soup made with small freshwater clams called jaecheop (재첩, Corbicula fluminea)

Bupyeon

Jeju Island

Jeju Island is the southernmost and largest island isolated from the Korean peninsula. Due to its lack of fresh water, paddy farming is only done on a small scale on the island. The cultivation of cereal crops such as millet, barnyard millet, buckwheat, and barley is the main feature of the island's agriculture. As a result, the traditional Jeju meal generally consists of japgokbap, a bowl of steamed multiple grains as a main dish, with salted dried fish called jaban as banchan (side dishes), and a soup based on doenjang (soybean paste) such as baechuguk made with napa cabbage, kongnipguk made with soybean leaves, or muguk made with radish. Jeju dishes are made with simple ingredients, and the taste is generally salty. Raw seafood called hoe is commonly consumed as a part of the meal. The warm weather affects Jeju's cuisine in that gimjang, preparing kimchi in late autumn for winter consumption, is not necessary there unlike in the other provinces. Only a small amount of kimchi is pickled by Jeju's locals. Representative main dishes in Jeju cuisine are porridge made with fish, seafood, seaweeds, or mushrooms. Examples include jeonbokjuk made with abalone, okdomjuk made with red tilefish, gejuk made with crabs, gingijuk made with small crabs called bangge (Helice tridens), maeyeoksae juk made with young wakame, and chogijuk made with shiitake.

Jeonbokjuk, abalone porridge

Obunjagi ttukbaegi, a stew made with colored abalone (Haliotis diversicolor) in a ttukbaegi pot

Okdom gui, grilled tilefish

Jari mulhoe, mulhoe (sliced raw fish with a mixture of water and spice sauce), made with damselfish (Chromis notata).

Milgam hwachae, mandarin orange punch.

See also

Food portal

South Korea portal

Korean cuisine

Korean royal court cuisine

Korean temple cuisine

Koryo-saram cuisine

List of Korean dishes

List of North Korean dishes

References

^ "(Korean Food Culture Series - Part 7) Local Foods". Korea Tourism Organization. 2008-02-05. Archived from the original on 2012-05-31. Retrieved 2009-11-20.

^ 향토음식 鄕土飮食 [Hyangto eumsik] (in Korean). Nate/Britannica. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p 향토음식 鄕土飮食 [Hyangto eumsik] (in Korean). Daum/Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. 3 April 1999.

^ a b c d e f 평안도의 향토음식 [Regional foods of Pyongan province] (in Korean). Nate / Britannica. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ 국밥 [Kimchi mari] (in Korean). Nate/Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ 김치말이 [Kimchi mari] (in Korean). Nate/Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ 어복쟁반 ( ──錚盤) [Eobok jaengban] (in Korean). Nate/Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ Ye, Jong-seok (예종석) (2008-02-13). 먹다가 정분 날라, 낭만의 어복쟁반 (in Korean). The Hankyoreh. Archived from the original on 2008-04-20.

^ 강량국수 [Gangnyang guksu] (in Korean). Nate/Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ 굴만두 [Gulmandu] (in Korean). Nate Korean Dictionary. Archived from the original on 2011-10-06.

^ 장똑똑이 醬─ [Jang ttoktoki] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia.[permanent dead link]

^ Hwang, Jin-gyu (황진규) (1999-08-30). "A Study on the Development of Korea traditional food's Web site" (in Korean). IICNET. Archived from the original on 2011-07-22. 더풀장 메주콩을 삶아 띄운 다음 찧어 소금으로 간을 한 장으로, 청국장과 비슷한 것이다.

^ 第5章 찬류(饌類)(II) Archived 2011-07-04 at the Wayback Machine p. 101 National Research Insistue of Cultural Heritage Archived 2009-08-13 at the Wayback Machine

^ 내포탕[permanent dead link]

^ 송기떡 [Songgi tteok] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia.[permanent dead link]

^ 골미떡 [Golmi tteok] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2010-03-06.

^ 곱장떡 [Gopjang tteok] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2010-03-06.

^ 뽕떡 [Ppong tteok] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia.[permanent dead link]

^ 니도래미 [Nidoraemi] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2010-03-06.

^ 조개송편 [Jogae tteok] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia.[permanent dead link]

^ 과줄 [Gwajul] (in Korean). Nate Korean Dictionary. Archived from the original on 2011-10-06.

^ 태식 [Taesik] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2010-03-06.

^ 평양시 平壤市 [Pyongyang] (in Korean). Nate/Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ a b c d e 닮은 듯 색다른 매력을 간직한 북한의 음식 문화 (in Korean). Korea Knowledge Portal. 2009-06-19. Archived from the original on 2011-10-09.

^ Ju, Wan-jung (주완중) (2000-06-12). '오마니의 맛' 관심 [Attention to "Mother's taste"] (in Korean). The Chosun Ilbo.

^ a b 함경도의 향토음식 [Regional foods of Hamgyong province] (in Korean). Nate/Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ 양강도 [Yanggang-do (Ryanggang province)] (in Korean). Nate / Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ 자강도 [Jagang-do (Chagang province)] (in Korean). Nate / Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ 감자농마국수 [Gamja nongma guksu (Potato starch noodles)] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia.[permanent dead link]

^ 북한의 음식문화 [Culinary culture of North Korea] (in Korean). KBS. Archived from the original on 2004-10-28. Retrieved 2009-11-24.

^ 강계면옥 냉면 맛이 일품 Archived 2011-07-22 at the Wayback Machine Tongil Shinmun

^ 자강도 [Jagang-do (Chagang province)] (in Korean). Invil.org. Archived from the original on 2012-03-01. Retrieved 2009-11-24.

^ a b c Seo, Hyeon-jin (서현진), (Jan. 1999)테마음식/우리나라 10道 10色 향토음식 Archived 2011-07-22 at the Wayback Machine Monthly Hotel & Restaurant

^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2012-04-02. Retrieved 2011-11-09.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)

^ 강릉방풍죽 [Gangneung pangpung juk (Glehnia littoralis porridge)] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2010-03-06.

^ 강원도의 향토음식 [Regional foods of Pyongan province] (in Korean). Nate/Britannica. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ 편수 [Pyeonsu] (in Korean). Nate / Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ 제물국수 jemul guksu, chemul kuksu (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2012-06-16. Retrieved 2009-11-26.

^ 메밀칼싹두기 [Memil kalssakdugi] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2012-06-16. Retrieved 2009-11-26.

^ 콩국수 [Kongguksu (noodles in soybean broth)] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2012-06-16. Retrieved 2009-11-26.

^ a b c 서울의 향토음식 (in Korean). Nate / Britannica. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ 메밀만두 [Memil mandu (buckwheat dumpling)] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2012-06-16. Retrieved 2009-11-29.

^ 생치만두 生雉饅頭 [Saengchi mandu] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2012-06-16. Retrieved 2009-11-29.

^ 편수 片水 [Pyeonsu] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2012-06-16. Retrieved 2009-11-29.

^ "Seonnongdan". Dongdaemun District website. Archived from the original on 2010-04-18.

^ 설렁탕 [Seolleongtang] (in Korean). Nate / Encyclopedia of Korean culture. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ 각색전골 [Gaksaek jeongol] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2012-06-16. Retrieved 2009-11-29.

^ 떡찜 [Tteokjjim] (in Korean). Nate Korean Dictionary. Archived from the original on 2011-10-06.

^ 간전 [Ganjeon] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2010-03-06.

^ 갑회甲膾 [Gaphoe] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2010-03-06.

^ 편육 片肉 [Pyeonyuk] (in Korean). Nate / Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ 매듭자반 [Maedeup jaban] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia.[permanent dead link]

^ 장김치 醬─ [Jang kimchi] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia.[permanent dead link]

^ 숙깍두기 熟─ [Suk kimchi] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Retrieved 2009-11-30.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link)

^ 수란 (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10. Retrieved 2018-06-01.

^ 단자 團子 [Danja] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2012-06-16. Retrieved 2009-11-30.

^ 두텁떡 [Duteoptteok] (in Korean). Nate Korean-English Dictionary. Archived from the original on 2011-10-06. Retrieved 2009-11-29.

^ 상추떡 [Sangchu tteok] (in Korean). Nate Korean-English Dictionary. Archived from the original on 2011-10-06.

^ 각색편 各色餠 [Gaksaekpyeon] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2012-06-16. Retrieved 2009-11-29.

^ 느티떡 [Nuti tteok] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2012-06-16. Retrieved 2009-11-29.

^ 만두과 饅頭菓 [Mandugwa] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2014-07-15. Retrieved 2009-11-30.

^ 엿강정 [Yeotgangjeong] (in Korean). Korea Food and Drug Administration. Archived from the original on 2012-09-20.

^ Silkkae yeotgangjeong, ttangkong yeotgangjeong, baekjapyeon.

^ Heukimja dasik, kong dasik, songhwa dasik, bam dasik, jinmal dasik, nongmal dasik, ssal dasik

^ Ttuk, Hangwa Food in Korea

^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2012-04-02. Retrieved 2011-11-09.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)

^ http://www.hansik.org/zh/restaurant/recommendRestaurantView.do?&fboardId=1076[permanent dead link]

^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2012-04-02. Retrieved 2011-11-09.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)

^ a b http://www.hansik.org/zh/restaurant/recommendRestaurantView.do?&fboardId=1075[permanent dead link]

^ 자반 [Jaban] (in Korean). Nate Korean-English Dictionary. Archived from the original on 2011-07-14.

^ 자반 [Jaban] (in Korean). Nate / Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Archived from the original on 2011-06-10.

^ 옥돔죽 [Okdomjuk (Red tilefish porridge)] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2010-03-06.

^ 깅이죽 [Gingijuk] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2012-06-16. Retrieved 2009-11-22.

^ 매역새우럭국 [Maeyeoksae ureokguk] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2012-06-16. Retrieved 2009-11-22.

^ 초기죽 [Chogijuk (shiitake porridge)] (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2012-06-16. Retrieved 2009-11-22.

"(Korean Food Culture Series - Part 7) Local Foods". Korea Tourism Organization. 2008-02-05. Archived from the original on 2012-05-31. Retrieved 2009-11-20.

닮은 듯 색다른 매력을 간직한 북한의 음식 문화 (in Korean). Korea Knowledge Portal. 2009-06-19. Archived from the original on 2011-10-09.

External links

Official site of Korea National Tourism List of Korean Food Archived 2013-09-28 at the Wayback Machine

Food in Korea at the Korea Agro-Fisheries Trade Corporation

The Korea Society Podcast: Quick and Easy Korean Cooking

# Korean barbecue


Korean barbecue (Korean: 고기구이; RR: gogigui; lit. 'meat roast') is a popular method in Korean cuisine of grilling meat, typically beef, pork or chicken. Such dishes are often prepared on gas or charcoal grills built into the dining table itself, though some restaurants provide customers with portable stoves for diners to use at their tables. Alternatively, a chef uses a centrally displayed grill to prepare dishes that are made to order.

The most representative form of gogi-gui is bulgogi, usually made from thinly sliced marinated beef sirloin or tenderloin. Another popular form is galbi, made from marinated beef short ribs. However, gogi-gui also includes many other kinds of marinated and unmarinated meat dishes, and can be divided into several categories. Korean barbecue is popular in its home country. It gained its global popularity through Hallyu, more commonly known as the "Korean Wave", a term that describes the rise in popularity of Korean culture abroad during the 1990s and 2000s.

History

Maekjeok (Korean: 맥적; Hanja: 貊炙) from Goguryeo era (37 BCE–668 CE) is the oldest record related to Korean barbecue. During the Joseon period (1392–1897), roasted beef Neobiani was a favorite of the Joseon royal family.

Korean barbecue spread to Japan around the 1910–1945 Japanese colonial period. It was adapted to Japanese tastes, and now persists today as yakiniku.

In the Philippines, unlimited Korean barbecue chains like Samgyupsalamat became popular in the late 2010s, often serving samgyeopsal with unlimited rice and side dishes.

Varieties

Bulgogi (불고기)

Galbi (갈비)

Jumulleok (주물럭), short steaks marinated with sesame oil

Chadolbagi/chadolbaegi (차돌박이; 차돌백이), thinly sliced brisket point

Deungsim (등심), sirloin

Kkot deungsim (꽃등심), rib eye steak roll

Ansim (안심), beef tenderloin

Salchisal (살치살), chuck flap tail

Galbisal (갈비살), rib meat

Chae kkeut (채끝), strip loin

Buchaesal (부채살), top blade

Anchangsal (안창살), outside skirt steak

Chimasal yangji (치마살양지), flank steak

Dwaeji bulgogi (돼지불고기), spicy pork bulgogi

Dwaeji Galbi (돼지갈비), pork Galbi

Dwaeji Jumulleok (돼지주물럭), pork Jumulleok

Samgyeopsal (삼겹살), pork belly

Moksal (목살), pork shoulder

Dwaeji Kkeopdaegi (돼지껍데기), pork rind

Dak galbi (닭갈비), spicy marinated chicken

Dak gui (닭구이), grilled chicken

Ori bulgogi (오리불고기), spicy duck bulgogi

Ori Jumulleok (오리주물럭), duck Jumulleok

Ori soguem gui (오리소금구이), grilled duck

Hunjae ori gui (훈제오리구이), smoked and grilled duck

Marinated barbecue meats

Bulgogi (불고기) is the most popular variety of Korean barbecue. Before cooking, the meat is marinated with a mixture of soy sauce, sugar, ginger, scallions, sesame oil, garlic and pepper. Pears are also traditionally used in the marinade to help tenderize the meat, but kiwi and pineapple have also been used more recently. It is traditionally cooked using gridirons or perforated dome griddles that sit on braziers, but pan cooking has become common as well.

Galbi (갈비) is made with beef short ribs, marinated in a sauce that may contain mirin, soy sauce, water, garlic, brown sugar, sugar and sliced onions. It is believed to taste best when grilled with charcoal or soot (숯, burned wood chips).

Jumulleok (주물럭) is short steak marinated with sesame oil, salt and pepper. It is similar to unmarinated gogi-gui, distinguished it from other kinds of meat by its steak-like juicy texture. Jumulleok is also commonly found with sliced duck instead of beef.

Dwaeji bulgogi (돼지불고기), or spicy pork, is also a popular gogigui dish. It is different from beef bulgogi in that the marinade is not soy sauce-based, but, instead, is marinated in sauces based on gochujang and/or gochu garu (Korean chili powder). The flavor is usually better when made with fattier cuts of pork, such as pork shoulder or pork belly.

Un-marinated barbecue meats

Chadolbagi or chadolbaegi is a dish made from thinly sliced beef brisket, which is not marinated. It is so thin that it cooks nearly instantly as soon as it is dropped onto a heated pan.

Samgyeopsal is made of thicker strips of unsalted pork belly. It has fatty areas and is tender. In Korea, samgyeopsal is eaten more frequently than chadolbaegi due to the comparatively lower price of pork.

Loins (deungsim, 등심) and boneless ribs (galbisal, 갈비살) are also a popular choice as an unmarinated type of gogigui.

Side dishes

Gogi-gui comes with various banchan (side dishes). The most popular side dishes are rice and kimchi, and a green onion salad called pajeori and a fresh vegetable dish including lettuce, cucumbers, and peppers invariably accompany the meat dishes at restaurants. Other popular side dishes include the spinach side dish (sigeumchi namul/시금치나물), egg roll omelette (gyeran-mari/계란말이), spicy radish salad (mu saengchae/무생채), and a steamed egg soufflé (gyeran-jjim/계란찜). A popular way of eating Korean barbecue is to wrap the meat with lettuce and/or perilla leaves and add condiments such as pajeori (spicy scallion salad) and ssamjang (a spicy paste made of doenjang mixed with gochujang).

Korean barbecue is also popularly paired with alcoholic drinks, such as beer, soju, makgeolli, or wine.

Gallery

Galbi cooking

Fresh cut loins and boneless ribs

Marinated boneless galbi

Korean barbecue

Galbisal, boneless ribs before cooking

Barbecued galbisal after cooking

Pajeori (파절이), a banchan of spicy green onion salad

See also

Food portal

South Korea portal

Barbecue restaurant

Korean cuisine

Yakiniku

References

^ Although beef galbi is the most common form of galbi, it may also be made from pork ribs or chicken.

^ "The hallyu origin story · V&A". Victoria and Albert Museum. Retrieved 2025-10-04.

^ "Where Did KBBQ Come From? Inside Its 2,000-Year-Old History". Nextshark. 21 December 2020.

^ Weiner, Michael (2004). Race, Ethnicity and Migration in Modern Japan: Indigenous and colonial others. Taylor & Francis. p. 236. ISBN 978-0-415-20856-7. Yakiniku is a Japanese word simply meaning "cooked meat" and used to denote a grilled meat cuisine found in Korean restaurants in Japan. The mainland Korean equivalent is bulgogi, but the two cuisines are not entirely the same. Yakuniku is a variant of cooked meat that has been modified by Zainichi Koreans to appeal to Japanese tastes.

^ "「焼肉」名前の由来とは... え、朝鮮半島の南北対立が背景なの？【焼肉の日】". ハフポスト (in Japanese). 2016-08-29. Retrieved 2021-11-09.

^ Moran, Romeo (July 17, 2019). "Unlimited Korean barbecue: How does it work?". Philippine Daily Inquirer.

^ Yu, Henna (May 28, 2018). "Samgyupsalamat Just Opened Three New Branches for Your K-Barbecue Fix". Spot.ph. Summit Media.

^ "Bulgogi (Korean Barbecued Beef)". Food Network. Retrieved 2021-03-27.

^ Paley, Rachel Tepper (30 December 2015). "A Brief History of Bulgogi, Korea's Most Delicious Export (Recipe)". Smithsonian Magazine. Retrieved 2021-03-27.

^ Kang, Matthew. "Watch: How to Do All-You-Can-Eat Korean Barbecue Like a Pro". Eater. Retrieved 2018-03-30.

^ "Grilled Beef Galbi (Korean-Style Marinated Short Ribs) Recipe". www.seriouseats.com. Retrieved 2021-03-27.

^ a b c d Marx, Sasha. "An Introduction to Korean Barbecue". Serious Eats. Retrieved 2021-03-27.

^ Marx, Sasha. "Dwaeji Bulgogi (Korean-Style Spicy Grilled Pork) Recipe". Serious Eats. Retrieved 2021-03-27.

^ Sung, Andrea (2016-10-17). "Beyond Kimchi, The Rich Variety of Side Dishes in Korean Cuisine". KCET. Retrieved 2021-03-26.

^ Kastner, Erica (2018-09-20). "5 Easy Korean Side Dishes". The Pioneer Woman. Retrieved 2021-03-26.

^ Kim, Sohui (12 February 2019). "Dashi-Steamed Egg Custard". Bon Appétit. Retrieved 2021-03-26.

구이 (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Retrieved 2017-03-08.

구이 (in Korean). Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. Retrieved 2017-03-08.

구이 (in Korean). Empas/Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 2008-03-15.

External links

How to Cook Korean Food at Home Archived 2008-04-20 at the Wayback Machine - The Official Korea Tourism Guide Site

Barbacoa

Char siu

Churrasco

Indirect grilling

Inihaw

Korean barbecue

Mangal

Mixed grill

Mongolian barbecue

Schwenker

Shaokao

Shisa nyama

Siu mei

Yakiniku

United States Chicago Kansas City Memphis North Carolina Santa Maria South Carolina St. Louis Texas

Chicago

Kansas City

Memphis

North Carolina

Santa Maria

South Carolina

St. Louis

Barbecue grill

Barrel barbecue

Buccan

Charbroiler

Chimney starter

Disposable grill

Flattop grill

Gridiron

Grilling

Hibachi

Kamado

Pit barbecue

Shichirin

Smoking (Smoke ring)

List of barbecue dishes

List of smoked foods

Anticuchos

Arrosticini

Bakkwa

Barbecue chicken

Barbecue sandwich

Barbecue sauce

Brochette

Bulgogi

Bull roast

Burnt ends

Cha siu bao

Churrasco

Cocoloși

Corn on the cob

Espetada

Fatányéros

Frigărui

Galinha à africana

Jujeh kabab

Kabab barg

Kai yang

Khorkhog

Khorovats Karsi khorovats Khazani khorovats

Karsi khorovats

Khazani khorovats

Kofte kebab

Méchoui

Meurav Yerushalmi

Mixiote

Mookata

Mućkalica

Mu ping

Neobiani

Pig pickin'

Pig roast

Pinchitos

Provoleta

Pulled pork

Ražnjići

Red slaw

Ribs Beef Short ribs Pork Spare ribs

Beef Short ribs

Short ribs

Spare ribs

Sausage sizzle

Shashlik

Shish kebab

Shish taouk

Sosatie

Souvlaki

Suckling pig

Texas smoked brisket

Tsukune

Whole hog barbecue

Yakitori

Australasian Barbecue Alliance

Big Pig Jig

International Bar-B-Q Festival

Kansas City Barbeque Society

Khorovats Festival

Leskovac Grill Festival

Lexington Barbecue Festival

Memphis in May

North Carolina Barbecue Society

Roanoke-Chowan Pork-Fest

Barbecue restaurant List

Churrascaria

Food portal

Category

Commons

WikiProject Food and drink

# Soju


Soju (English pronunciation: /ˈsoʊdʒuː/; Korean: 소주) is a clear and colorless distilled alcoholic beverage from Korea, traditionally made from rice, but later from other grains and has a flavor similar to vodka. It is usually consumed neat. Its alcohol content varies from about 12.5% to 53% alcohol by volume (ABV). Since 2007 low alcohol soju (below 20%) has become the most common type.

Traditionally, most brands of soju are produced in the Andong region of South Korea, but also in other regions and countries. While soju was traditionally made from rice, South Korean ethanol producers replace rice with other starch, such as cassava due to significantly lower capital costs. Soju often appears similar to several other East Asian liquors while differing in alcohol contents.

Etymology

Soju (소주; 燒酒) means "burned liquor", with the first syllable, so (소; 燒; "burn"), referring to the heat of distillation and the second syllable, ju (주; 酒), meaning "alcoholic drink". Etymological dictionaries record that China's shaozhou (shāojiǔ, 烧酒), Japan's shochu (shōchū, 焼酎), and Korea's soju (soju, 燒酒) have the same etymology.[unreliable source?] In 2008, "soju" was included in the Merriam-Webster Dictionary. Merriam-Webster dated the word's appearance in the American English lexicon to 1951. In 2016, the word was included in the Oxford Dictionary of English.

Another name for soju is noju (노주; 露酒; "dew liquor"), with its first syllable, no/ro (노/로; 露; "dew"), likening the droplets of the collected alcohol during the distilling process to dewdrops. Some soju brand names include iseul (이슬), the native-Korean word for "dew", or no/ro (로; 露), the Sino-Korean word for "dew".

Soju is sometimes mistakenly referred to as cheongju (청주), a Korean rice wine. Mass-produced soju is also mistaken for Chinese baijiu, a grain liquor, and shōchū, a Japanese liquor.

History and production

The origin of soju dates back to 13th-century Goryeo. The Yuan Mongols acquired the technique of distilling arak from the Persians during their invasions of the Levant, Anatolia, and Persia, and in turn introduced it to the Korean Peninsula during the Mongol invasions of Korea (1231–1259). Distilleries were set up around the city of Gaegyeong, the then-capital (current Kaesong). In the areas surrounding Kaesong, soju is still called arak-ju (아락주). Andong soju, the direct root of modern South Korean soju varieties, started as the home-brewed liquor developed in the city of Andong, where the Yuan Mongols' logistics base was located during this era.

Soju is traditionally made by distilling alcohol from fermented rice. The rice wine for distilled soju is usually fermented for about 15 days, and the distillation process involves boiling the filtered, mature rice wine in a sot (cauldron) topped with soju gori (a two-story distilling appliance with a pipe). In the 1920s, over 3,200 soju breweries existed throughout the Korean Peninsula.

Soju was traditionally a beverage distilled from rice with 35% ABV until 1965, when diluted soju with 30% ABV made from other fermented substances appeared with South Korean government's prohibition of the traditional distillation of soju from rice, in order to alleviate rice shortages. Soju was then made from ethanol distilled to 95% ABV from sweet potatoes and tapioca, which was mixed with flavorings, sweeteners, and water. The end products are marketed under a variety of soju brand names. A single supplier (Korea Ethanol Supplies Company) sells ethanol to all soju producers in South Korea. Until the late 1980s, saccharin was the most popular sweetener used by the industry, but it has since been replaced by stevioside. The use of other grains and starches led different sojus to have different aroma and flavor.

During the 1970s, the national government of South Korea started to monopolize the soju industries. By the 1970s there were about 300 domestic soju companies. In 1973, the South Korean government began to consolidate various local soju producers. Each province was designated one soju producer per regional market. Each producer was to create a brand of soju that represented its region. By the end of the consolidation, a producer existed for each of the provinces. The government then passed two policies. The first was a mandatory local soju purchase policy. The policy required each provincial alcohol wholesaler to purchase more than 50 percent of their soju from within their own province. The second was the input allocation policy. This policy gave the government the responsibility to administer ethanol spirit, the main ingredient in soju. Each soju company was designated an amount based on their national market share in the previous year. These policies were created with the intention of protecting local firms and discouraging excessive competition.

This decision by the government advanced the efficient control of tax revenue. As a result of this consolidation, a few companies began to dominate the market. As of October 2023,[update] one firm, HiteJinro, accounts for almost half of the market while 4 smaller companies accounts for another 40 percent.

Due to the protection by the government's policies, local firms took the majority of market share in their regional markets. In the 1980s and 1990s, there was a trade liberalization trend which led the South Korean government to begin deregulating the soju industry. The government lifted its restrictions on new licenses for alcohol distribution in January 1991. It also lifted restrictions on soju production in March 1993. Various restrictions on the production of soju were also removed or weakened. The government also abolished the mandatory local soju purchase policy in January 1992.

Between 1993 and 1995, HiteJinro's market share in regional markets outside its own increased and local companies saw a steady decline. As a result of this loss in market share, local soju companies lobbied to reintroduce the protection policies that had been removed. In response, the National Assembly of South Korea reintroduced the mandatory local soju purchase policy in October 1995. However, the case was challenged and the case was eventually decided by the Supreme Court of Korea that the policy was unconstitutional and abolished it in December 1996.

Soju alcohol content has trended downward from the 1970s onward. The ABV of 30% fell to 25% by 1973, and 23% by 1998. Currently, soju with less than 17% ABV are widely available. In 2017, a typical 375-milliliter (13.2 imp fl oz; 12.7 U.S. fl oz) bottle of diluted soju retails at ₩1,700 (approximately $1.69) in supermarkets and convenience stores, and for ₩4,000–5,000 (approximately $3.99–4.98) in restaurants.

Several regions have resumed distilling soju from grains since 1999. Traditional hand-crafted Andong soju has about 45% ABV. Hwayo (화요) is a brand with five different mixes constituting an ABV range from 17% to 53%. In 2019, Jinro soju was the largest selling branded spirit in the world. Fruit sojus have been produced since 2015.

Soju is a specialty in North Korea.

Etiquette

The most important rule in Korean drinking etiquette is that the youngest person in the group pours the drinks for their elders. It applies not only to age but also to the hierarchy within a company. When pouring alcohol, both hands should be used to pour. When receiving alcohol, both hands should also be used to hold the glass. It is considered rude to pour oneself a drink.

Bottles and recycling

Soju is a popular Korean alcoholic beverage, with over 917 million liters being sold in Korea. In 1994 Doosan Beverage started using green 360ml bottles to associate Soju with being clean and fresh; being a great success, other brands started using the same bottles.

In 2009 seven soju companies made a voluntary agreement to start manufacturing soju in the same sized green bottle with the same design, these bottles can then be sold back to and reused by soju manufacturers. While the program was voluntary, it was beneficial to the companies producing soju by saving 88 won per bottle. While this simple idea allowed multiple companies to recycle the same bottle, increasing their savings while benefiting the environment, consumer participation needed to be improved. In 2015 South Korea revised an act that promoted recycling and it was found that the return of soju bottles increased significantly. The system was further improved in 2016, and the deposit was increased in 2017; in 2018 the recovery rate of soju bottles was 97.2% compared to 87.9% in 2015.

The return of recyclable materials is driven by South Korea's Beverage Container Deposit System. This system imposes a deposit on recyclable containers that is included in the sale price and refunded upon return. South Korea is recognized as a leading country when it comes to recycling, with Yale's Center for Environmental Law and Policy ranking South Korea as number one with an environmental performance index score of 67.1/100. South Korea attributes their success to volume-based fees for waste management. With this system households purchase government-issued trash bags while recyclables are separated and collected for free. Local governments set the price of these bags based on volume and are adjusted to reflect the cost of the waste management process.

Some companies started producing different colored bottles in 2019. According to the Korea Times, Soju manufacturing companies Hite and Muhak introduced non-standard bottles. This created a dispute between companies with claims that sorting out non standard bottles was costly. This has resulted in a new agreement where companies can trade non-standard bottles for the standard green ones with each other.

Soju outside Korea

There are a number of soju brands directly outside the Korean Peninsula for the ethnic Korean population, and most use rice as the foundation since the price is significantly cheaper than in South Korea. Soju from South Korea, from firms like Jinro, is also imported.

Canada

Liquors in Canada are subject to regulations that vary from province to province. In Ontario, the provincially run Liquor Control Board of Ontario (LCBO) sells soju, but not all LCBO locations carry it. However, since the LCBO introduced online ordering in 2016, soju can be ordered for home delivery anywhere in the province.

United States

The liquor licensing laws in the states of California and New York specifically exempt the sale of soju of up to 25% alcohol from regulation relating to the sale of other distilled spirits, allowing businesses with a beer/wine license to sell it without requiring the more expensive license required for other distilled spirits. The soju must contain less than 25% alcohol, and be clearly labeled.

This has led to the appearance in the United States of many soju-based equivalents of traditional Western mixed drinks normally based on vodka or similar spirits, such as the soju martini and the soju cosmopolitan. Another consequence is that the manufacturers of similar distilled spirits from other parts of Asia, such as Japanese shōchū, have begun to re-label their products as soju for sale in those regions.

Jinro's American division partnered with Korean pop star PSY to promote soju in the U.S., and in 2013 partnered with the Los Angeles Dodgers to sell soju at its games.

Brands

Jinro is the largest manufacturer of soju, accounting for half of all white spirits sold in South Korea. Soju accounts for 97% of the category. Global sales in 2013 were 750 million bottles. The most popular variety of soju is currently Chamisul (참이슬 - literally meaning "real dew"),[citation needed] a quadruple-filtered soju produced by Jinro, but recently Cheoeum-Cheoreom (처음처럼, lit. "like the first time") of Lotte Chilsung (롯데칠성) and Good Day (좋은데이) of Muhak (무학) are increasing their market share. However, the popularity of brands varies by region. In Busan, Shiwon Soju (시원 소주-"refreshing soju") is the local and most popular brand. Yipseju (잎새주 - "Leaf Soju"/"Maple Soju") is popular in the South Jeolla Province region.[unreliable source?] The Daegu Metropolitan Area has its own soju manufacturer, Kumbokju, with the popular brand Cham (참). Further north in the same province, Andong Soju is one of Korea's few remaining traditionally distilled brands of soju. On the Special Self-Governing Province of Jeju Province, Hallasan Soju is the most common brand, being named after the island's main mountain Mt. Halla. Also, there is pureun-bam (푸른 밤/meaning: blue night) made by Jeju-soju. In South Gyeongsang Province and Ulsan, the most popular is Good Day (좋은데이), produced by Muhak in Changwon. However, as soon as one crosses the border from Ulsan north to Gyeongju in North Gyeongsang Province, it is almost impossible to buy White Soju, and the most popular brands are Chamisul and Cham. Since 2015, the new trends of soju include fruit soju and sparkling soju, which have become increasingly popular in Korea, especially for young people. Sae-ro, a sugar-free soju, is also popular among young people.

New American producers are entering the market. Some, like Tokki Soju and West 32 Soju, with initial market penetration in major markets like New York, are finding critical success. Tokki Soju won double gold for their barrel-aged soju, Tokki Soju Gold, in the San Francisco Spirits Competition 2021 and 2022. West 32 Soju won a gold medal at the 2017 New York International Spirits Competition. Minhwa Spirits, located in Doraville, Georgia, is a Korean-American craft distillery and brewery known for producing artisanal soju and makgeolli using traditional ingredients and methods. Their flagship Yong Soju (40 % ABV) won Double Gold at the 2024 and Best in class at 2025 San Francisco World Spirits Competition and was named Soju of the Year at the 2024 USA Spirits Ratings.

A new all natural soju distilled in Germany called ISAE is also entering the premium soju market. It is distilled according to the German Purity Law (the Reinheitsgebot) for grain spirits of 1789 and uses 100% regional winter wheat and organic rice.

Recently, soju has been produced for the younger generation. It mainly contains fruit flavor and produces and sells soju with low frequency.

Consumption

Although beer, whiskey, and wine have been gaining popularity in recent years, soju remains one of the most popular alcoholic beverages in Korea because of its ready availability and relatively low price. More than 3 billion bottles were consumed in South Korea in 2004. In 2006, it was estimated that the average adult Korean (older than 20) had consumed 90 bottles of soju during that year. In 2014, it was reported that South Koreans of drinking age consumed an average of 13.7 shots of spirit per week, the highest per capita consumption of alcoholic spirits of any country. However, due to the lower concentration of alcohol in soju compared to other hard spirits and the lack of an international standard for the volume of a shot, this does not necessarily imply a larger consumption of alcohol from hard spirits.[citation needed]

Cocktails

While soju is traditionally consumed straight, a few cocktails and mixed drinks use soju as a base spirit. Beer and soju can be mixed to create somaek (소맥), a portmanteau of the words soju and maekju (맥주 beer). Flavored soju is also available. It is also popular to blend fruits with soju and to drink it in "slushy" form.[unreliable source?] Another very popular flavored soju is yogurt soju (요구르트 소주), which is a combination of soju, yogurt, and lemon lime soda.

A poktan-ju (폭탄주) ("bomb drink") consists of a shot glass of soju dropped into a pint of beer (similar to a boilermaker); it is drunk quickly. This is similar to the Japanese sake bomb.

See also

Asia portal

Korea portal

Liquor portal

Drink portal

Andong soju from Andong region

Awamori, of Okinawa

Baijiu, of China

Korean alcoholic beverages

Korean beer

Korean cuisine

Lao khao, of Laos and Thailand

Makgeolli, of Korea

Rice wine

Rượu đế, of Vietnam

Sake, of Japan

Shōchū, of Japan

Citations

^ "soju". Oxford Dictionary of English. Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on May 17, 2019. Retrieved April 14, 2017.

^ a b "soju". Merriam-Webster Dictionary. Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on July 5, 2017. Retrieved November 22, 2014.

^ Miller, Norman (December 2, 2013). "Soju: the most popular beverage in the world". The Guardian. Retrieved April 13, 2017.

^ a b Wolinski, Cat (August 29, 2018). "The Differences Between Soju, Shochu, and Sake, Explained". VinePair.

^ a b c Park, Eun-jee (November 19, 2014). "Koreans looking for weaker soju". Korea JoongAng Daily. Archived from the original on April 14, 2017. Retrieved April 14, 2017.

^ a b c Hall, Joshua (October 17, 2014). "Soju Makers Aim to Turn Fire Water Into Liquid Gold". The Wall Street Journal. Archived from the original on April 15, 2017. Retrieved December 24, 2014.

^ "How to Party With Soju, Korea's Most Iconic Spirit" From Bonappetit

^ Wolinski, Cat (August 29, 2018). "The Differences Between Soju, Shochu, and Sake, Explained". VinePair. Archived from the original on March 24, 2022. Retrieved March 30, 2022.

^ "Soju" 소주. Standard Korean Language Dictionary (in Korean). National Institute of Korean Language. Archived from the original on April 15, 2017. Retrieved April 14, 2017.

^ 허, 시명 (August 13, 2019). 일제 강점기의 베스트셀러 술이 남긴 것. OhmyNews. Archived from the original on May 23, 2021. Retrieved May 23, 2021.

^ Boutin, Paul (July 8, 2008). "Merriam-Webster's new dictionary words for 2008". Gawker. Archived from the original on September 10, 2016. Retrieved November 22, 2014.

^ "New words list June 2016". Oxford English Dictionary. Archived from the original on April 14, 2017. Retrieved April 14, 2017. *Jonathan Dent. "New words notes June 2016". Oxford English Dictionary. Archived from the original on June 29, 2016.

^ "noju" 노주. Standard Korean Language Dictionary (in Korean). National Institute of Korean Language. Archived from the original on April 14, 2017. Retrieved April 14, 2017.

^ Pettid, Michael J. (2008). Korean Cuisine: An Illustrated History. London: Reaktion Books. p. 118. ISBN 978-1-86189-348-2. Archived from the original on April 24, 2023. Retrieved October 3, 2020.

^ a b Cho, Ines (October 20, 2005). "Moving beyond the green blur: a history of soju". Korea JoongAng Daily. Archived from the original on June 22, 2019. Retrieved April 14, 2017.

^ "Soju" 소주. Doopedia. Doosan Corporation. Archived from the original on December 25, 2020. Retrieved December 7, 2008.

^ 도, 현신 (2011). Jeonjaengi yorihan eumsigui yeoksa 전쟁이 요리한 음식의 역사. Seoul: Sidae Books. pp. 213–224. ISBN 978-89-5940-200-7. Archived from the original on June 27, 2022. Retrieved April 14, 2017.

^ Jang, Gyehyang (1670). Eumsik dimibang 음식디미방 [Guidebook of Homemade Food and Drinks] (in Korean). Andong, Joseon Korea. Archived from the original on January 12, 2019. Retrieved April 14, 2017. 말을 셰여 장 닉게 글힌 믈 두 말애 가 거든 누록 닷 되 섯거 녀헛다가 닐웨 지내거든 고 믈 두 사발을 몬져 힌 후에 술 세 사발을 그 믈에 부어 고로고로 저으라. 불이 셩면 술이 만이 나 긔운이 구무 가온드로 나 고 불이 면 술이 듯듯고 블이 듕면 노여 긋디 아니면 마시 심히 덜고 우희 믈을 로 라 이 법을 일치 아니면 온 술이 세 병 나니라

^ a b c Schwartzman, Nathan (March 25, 2009). "90 Years of Soju". Asian Correspondent. Archived from the original on July 9, 2018. Retrieved April 14, 2017.

^ Chosun.com Infographics Team (August 29, 2016). 증류식 소주 vs. 희석식 소주의 차이 [Differences between distilled vs. diluted soju]. The Chosun Ilbo (in Korean). Archived from the original on September 28, 2020. Retrieved September 13, 2016.

^ Chosun.com Infographics Team (August 22, 2016). 이슬과 땀의 술, 소주 한잔 하실래요? [Liquor of dew and sweat: What about a glass of soju?]. The Chosun Ilbo (in Korean). Archived from the original on October 17, 2016. Retrieved September 13, 2016.

^ "Moving beyond the green blur: a history of soju". Korea JoongAng Daily. October 20, 2005. Archived from the original on October 12, 2023. Retrieved October 9, 2023.

^ Park, Hyunhee (2021). Soju: A Global History. Asian Connections. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1-108-84201-3. Archived from the original on January 29, 2022. Retrieved January 29, 2022.

^ a b Son, Jungmin & Kim, Jikyung (Jeanne) & Choi, Jeonghye & Kim, Mingyung, 2017. "Linking online niche sales to offline brand conditions," Journal of Business Research, Elsevier, vol. 70(C), pages 74-84. https://ideas.repec.org/a/eee/jbrese/v70y2017icp74-84.html

^ "ON GLOBALIZATION, CONVERGENCE, AND DIVERSITY", The Limits of Convergence, Princeton University Press, pp. 213–234, doi:10.2307/j.ctt7scd0.14, retrieved October 5, 2023

^ 권, 영은 (January 5, 2017). 소주 한 병 1,700원…편의점ㆍ대형마트, 다음주부터 맥주·소줏값 인상. Hankook Ilbo (in Korean). Archived from the original on April 15, 2017. Retrieved April 14, 2017.

^ 박, 찬일 (January 12, 2017). [박찬일 셰프의 맛있는 미학]소주 5000원 시대. Kyunghyang Shinmun (in Korean). Archived from the original on June 15, 2020. Retrieved April 14, 2017.

^ Archibald, Anna (August 27, 2015). "Why You Should Be Drinking Korean Soju Right Now". Liquor.com. Archived from the original on April 14, 2017. Retrieved December 14, 2015.

^ "Exports of Lotte's flavored soju reach 41.9 bil. won over past 6 years". The Korea Times. August 3, 2022. Archived from the original on June 20, 2023.

^ Fischer, Paul (2015). A Kim Jong-Il production: the extraordinary true story of a kidnapped filmmaker, his star actress, and a young dictator's rise to power (1st ed.). New York: Flatiron Books. pp. 2–3. ISBN 978-1-250-05426-5. They drank cognac, champagne, soju (rice liquor), and other North Korean specialties such as ginseng wine, with the roots still twisting inside the bottle, and snake liquor, a thick, venomous asp infusing in each jar of grain alcohol.

^ Berdin, Kamilla (July 14, 2018). "Drink Like a Korean: Alcohol Etiquette in South Korea". Books and Bao. Archived from the original on November 9, 2020. Retrieved October 19, 2020.

^ Kim, Tae Wan (January 1, 2022), Russell, Inge; Stewart, Graham G.; Kellershohn, Julie (eds.), "Chapter 5 - Korean soju", Whisky and Other Spirits (Third Edition), Academic Press, pp. 63–74, doi:10.1016/b978-0-12-822076-4.00017-6, ISBN 978-0-12-822076-4, retrieved November 30, 2023{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link)

^ a b "[WHY] A look through green-tinted glasses at Korea's soju obsession". Korea JoongAng Daily. May 28, 2022. Retrieved November 30, 2023.

^ a b 빈용기보증금 제도개선의 효과 분석. www.kci.go.kr. Retrieved November 30, 2023.

^ "KECO". www.keco.or.kr. Retrieved November 30, 2023.

^ "Recycling | Environmental Performance Index". epi.yale.edu. May 26, 2022. Retrieved November 30, 2023.

^ Park, Seejeen (April 1, 2018). "Factors influencing the recycling rate under the volume-based waste fee system in South Korea". Waste Management. 74: 43–51. Bibcode:2018WaMan..74...43P. doi:10.1016/j.wasman.2018.01.008. ISSN 0956-053X. PMID 29352634.

^ "Two Decades in Effect: Volume-Based Waste Fee System in South Korea | Green Policy Platform". www.greenpolicyplatform.org. Retrieved November 30, 2023.

^ "How do soju bottles with different colors get recycled?". The Korea Times. August 30, 2020. Retrieved November 30, 2023.

^ "Jinro Brings New Soju Brand To China". Drinks Daily. Archived from the original on December 9, 2016. Retrieved December 14, 2015.

^ "Canada's weird liquor laws - Canada - CBC News". Archived from the original on September 17, 2013.

^ "Ontario Newsroom | Salle de presse de l'Ontario". news.ontario.ca. Archived from the original on October 31, 2020. Retrieved October 28, 2020.

^ "LCBO launches online sales of beer, wine, cider, spirits - Toronto - CBC News". Archived from the original on July 26, 2016.

^ Soju Goes Where Vodka Cannot Tread, Los Angeles Times, June 27, 2002. (Accessed February 2011)

^ "Ku Soju is under construction". www.kusoju.com. Archived from the original on August 21, 2011. Retrieved August 11, 2011.

^ "What is Sochu?". Sake World Homepage. Archived from the original on June 26, 2012. Retrieved November 22, 2014.

^ Dreisbach, Tom (September 22, 2013). "Move Over Vodka; Korean Soju's Taking A Shot At America". NPR.org. NPR. Archived from the original on December 10, 2015. Retrieved December 14, 2015.

^ a b "It's official: Jinro soju is the world's best-selling liquor". Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. Archived from the original on April 17, 2016. Retrieved December 15, 2015.

^ "Jinro Soju – the world leader". The Whiskey Exchange. May 20, 2015. Archived from the original on December 22, 2015. Retrieved December 14, 2015.

^ a b c "The Most Popular Soju by Region in South Korea". Viki Inc. June 2015. Archived from the original on August 3, 2016. Retrieved December 14, 2015.

^ "Charm Soju". EtradeDaegu. Archived from the original on November 29, 2014. Retrieved November 22, 2014.

^ Dunbar, Jon (October 26, 2011). "Andong Soju Traditional Food Museum - Review". Archived from the original on April 2, 2012. Retrieved November 9, 2011.

^ 방, 영덕 (July 11, 2017). 신세계, 제주소주 브랜드명은 '푸른밤'…소주 사업 본격화. Maeil Business Newspaper (in Korean). Archived from the original on April 24, 2023. Retrieved March 15, 2019.

^ 제주소주. 제주소주 (in Korean). Archived from the original on December 12, 2018. Retrieved March 15, 2019.

^ kang, pilsung (March 22, 2016). "the sparkling soju and fruit soju are new trends". Archived from the original on December 1, 2017.

^ [재계 3.0시대 (10)주류업계] 트렌드 주도하는 주류업계 2·3세들. JoongAng Ilbo (in Korean). October 31, 2015. Archived from the original on April 16, 2021. Retrieved April 16, 2021.

^ 연매출 1000억…제로 슈거 소주 트렌드 이끄는 롯데칠성 '새로'. Money Today (in Korean). May 12, 2024. Retrieved September 13, 2024.

^ "Home". West 32 Soju. Archived from the original on April 26, 2017. Retrieved April 25, 2017.

^ "2017 Winners – New York International Spirits Competition". nyispiritscompetition.com. Archived from the original on June 17, 2017. Retrieved May 22, 2017.

^ "Minhwa Spirits is reshaping the narrative around Korean alcohol". Atlanta Magazine. April 22, 2024. Retrieved August 11, 2025.

^ "2024 San Francisco World Spirits Competition Results". San Francisco World Spirits Competition. Retrieved August 11, 2025.

^ "2025 San Francisco World Spirits Competition Results". San Francisco World Spirits Competition. Retrieved August 11, 2025.

^ "2025 Top Shelf Awards Gala Winners Announced". San Francisco World Spirits Competition. Retrieved August 11, 2025.

^ "Yong Soju 2024 Soju Of The Year". USA Spirits Ratings. Retrieved August 11, 2025.

^ "ISAE all natural Soju". Isae Soju by Kyopo spirits. Archived from the original on July 26, 2018. Retrieved July 26, 2018.

^ 진격의 K과일소주…주류 수출 30% 육박. Nate News (in Korean). Retrieved September 20, 2024.

^ "Cigarette Sales Surge to Historic High". The Chosun Ilbo. Archived from the original on October 17, 2007. Retrieved June 29, 2005.

^ "Let's Have a Soju Tonight". KBS World. Archived from the original on March 9, 2010. Retrieved January 1, 2008.

^ "South Koreans drink twice as much liquor as Russians and more than four times as much as Americans". Quartz. February 2, 2014. Archived from the original on February 8, 2014. Retrieved December 14, 2015.

^ Dean, Tim (August 15, 2021). "Korea's favorite soju and beer cocktail – how to make somaek". Drink Pirate. Archived from the original on September 30, 2021. Retrieved September 30, 2021.

^ "Slushie Soju, a new way for Koreans (the #1 alcoholic beverage consumers) in the world to enjoy their favorite beverage". 6Theory Media, LLC. Archived from the original on December 22, 2015. Retrieved December 14, 2015.

^ "koreataste.org". Archived from the original on June 20, 2012.

^ "Heavy-Drinking Culture Challenged in S. Korea". The Seoul Times Company. Archived from the original on December 22, 2015. Retrieved December 14, 2015.

^ "Sake Bomb". Autodesk Inc. Archived from the original on July 8, 2016. Retrieved December 14, 2015.

General and cited references

Park, Hyunhee (2021). Soju: A Global History. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 9781108895774.

External links

Popular alcohols from Korea Archived November 29, 2010, at the Wayback Machine

Bibimbap

Gimbap

Hoe-deopbap

Nurungji

Ogok-bap

Patbap

Kongbap

Bokkeum-bap

Jumeok-bap

Yaksik

Ssambap

Gukbap

Bulgogi

Galbi Dak-galbi

Dak-galbi

Samgyeopsal

Makchang

Galbijjim

Andong jjimdak

Gyeran-jjim

Agwi-jjim

Sannakji

Yukhoe

Sukhoe

Ganghoe

Kongnamul

Chwinamul

Jangajji

Saengchae

Golbaengi-muchim

Japchae

Pajeon

Kimchi-buchimgae

Bindae-tteok

Aehobakbuchimgae

Myeolchi

Ojingeo

Hanchi

Myeongnan

Gejang

Tteokguk

Haejang-guk

Miyeok-guk

Mandu-guk

Yukgaejang

Gukbap Gul-gukbap Dwaeji-gukbap

Gul-gukbap

Dwaeji-gukbap

Dak-hanmari

Seonjit-guk

Tang Bosintang Chueotang Dak-bokkeum-tang Galbitang Gamjatang Maeuntang Oritang Samgyetang Seolleongtang Yeonpo-tang

Bosintang

Chueotang

Dak-bokkeum-tang

Galbitang

Gamjatang

Maeuntang

Oritang

Samgyetang

Seolleongtang

Yeonpo-tang

Jijimi

Jjigae Doenjang-jjigae Cheonggukjang-jjigae Kimchi-jjigae Sundubu-jjigae Saeujeot-jjigae Budae-jjigae

Doenjang-jjigae

Cheonggukjang-jjigae

Kimchi-jjigae

Sundubu-jjigae

Saeujeot-jjigae

Budae-jjigae

Sinseollo

Jeongol Gopchang jeongol

Gopchang jeongol

Gamja-ongsimi

Naengmyeon

Milmyeon

Jjolmyeon

Japchae

Jajangmyeon

Jjamppong

Bibim-guksu

Sujebi

Janchi-guksu

Kal-guksu

Mak-guksu

Jat-guksu

Kong-guksu

Ramyeon

Jjapaguri

Gogi-guksu

Garak-guksu

Baechu-kimchi

Baek-kimchi

Dongchimi

Nabak-kimchi

Kkakdugi

Pa-kimchi

Yeolmu-kimchi

Gat-kimchi

Geotjeori

Tteokbokki

Sundae

Myeongtae

Korean Fried Chicken

Buldak

Hotteok

Jjinppang

Hoppang

Beondegi

Bungeoppang

Gyeranppang

Hangwa

Tteok Chapssaltteok Songpyeon Yaksik

Chapssaltteok

Songpyeon

Yaksik

Mandu Kimchi mandu Eo-mandu

Kimchi mandu

Eo-mandu

Bokkeum

Anju Jokbal Jokpyeon Pyeonyuk

Jokbal

Jokpyeon

Pyeonyuk

Makgeolli

Cheongju

Dansul

Baekse-ju

Green tea

Insam-cha

Saenggang-cha

Sujeonggwa

Sikhye

Yuja-cha

Bori-cha

Oksusu-cha

Hyeonmi-cha

Sungnyung

Yulmu-cha

Misutgaru

Ambasa

Dalgona coffee

Hangover drinks

Sikhye

Hwachae

Sujeonggwa

Sinseollo

Gujeolpan

Jangguk-juk

Jatjuk

Jeho-tang

Neobiani

Onjium

Baesuk

Tangpyeong-chae

Tarak-juk

Tteok-galbi

Wolgwa-chae

Yuja-hwachae

Jjinppang

Hoppang

Hotteok

Bungeoppang

Gukhwa-ppang

Gyeranppang

Soboro-ppang

Soy sauce Soup soy sauce

Soup soy sauce

Persimmon vinegar

Rice vinegar

Doenjang

Gochujang

Ssamjang

Cheong

Dishes Jeju dishes Seoul dishes

Jeju dishes

Seoul dishes

Ingredients

Bunsik

Beer in South Korea

Street food in South Korea

List of oldest restaurants in South Korea

Category

Amazake

Andong soju

Awamori

Baekse-ju

Beopju

Cheongju Beopju

Beopju

Chhaang

Choujiu

Cơm rượu

Dansul

Gwaha-ju

Huangjiu

Jiuniang

Kuchikamizake

Lao khao

Lihing

Makgeolli

Nigori

Pangasi

Rice baijiu

Rice shochu

Rượu cần

Rượu đế

Rượu nếp

Shaoxing wine

Sra peang

Tamagozake

Black vinegar

Brown rice green tea

Brown rice tea

Genmaicha

Horchata

Jūrokucha

Kokkoh

Rice milk

Rice water

Sikhye

Sungnyung

List of rice drinks

# Makgeolli


Makgeolli (Korean: 막걸리; pronounced [mak.k͈ʌɭɭi]; lit. 'raw rice wine'), sometimes anglicized to makkoli (/ˈmækəli/, MAK-ə-lee), is a Korean alcoholic drink. It is a milky, off-white, and lightly sparkling rice wine that has a slight viscosity, and tastes slightly sweet, tangy, bitter, and astringent. Chalky sediment gives it a cloudy appearance. As a low proof drink of six to nine percent alcohol by volume, it is often considered a "communal beverage" rather than hard liquor.

In Korea, makgeolli is often unpasteurized, and the wine continues to mature in the bottle. Because of the short shelf life of unpasteurized "draft" makgeolli, many exported makgeolli undergo pasteurization, which deprives the beverage of complex enzymes and flavor compounds. Recently, various fruits such as strawberries and bananas have been added to makgeolli to create forms with new flavours.

The name makgeolli (막걸리) is a compound, consisting of mak (막; in this context "just now") and a deverbal noun derived from the verb stem georeu- (거르-; "to strain, to sift, to filter") to which is added a noun-forming suffix -i (-이).

Because of its cloudy appearance, makgeolli is also called takju (탁주; 濁酒), meaning "opaque wine", as opposed to the refined, transparent cheongju (청주; 淸酒; lit. 'clear wine'). Another name for makgeolli is nongju (농주; 農酒; lit. 'agricultural wine; farmer's wine'), reflecting the traditional popularity of the beverage among farmers.

English nickname

In 2010, the South Korean Ministry for Food, Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries announced "drunken rice" as the winning entry in a competition to find an English nickname for makgeolli. Koju, Kori, Soolsool, McKorea, Rainydaywine, Makcohol and Makelixir were other contenders. The five-member panel reasoned that the chosen name would communicate the product's identity as a rice liquor and evoke associations with its ambassadors, the popular Korean hip-hop group Drunken Tiger. This met with a cool reception from the Korean public, with objections relating to translation of the noun makgeolli, felt to be unnecessary, and to the negative connotations of the word "drunken".

Scottish band Colonel Mustard & The Dijon 5, playing at the inaugural DMZ Peace Train Festival in 2018, called makgeolli 'Fight Milk', or 'Korean Buckfast'.

Japanese name

In 2009, Korean importers in Japan began producing makgeolli products, promoting them with the name makkori, the Japanese pronunciation of makgeolli. In 2011, several Japanese sake companies, including Gekkeikan and Tatenokawa, launched cloudy rice wines under the name makkori, and announced plans to export the products to Asia, America, and Europe. Concerns were raised in Korea that this could lead to makgeolli being mistakenly regarded as traditionally Japanese rather than Korean, as had happened in the 1996 kimchi-kimuchi case.

History

Makgeolli is the oldest alcoholic beverage in Korea. Rice wine has been brewed since the Three Kingdoms era, which ran from the 1st century BCE to the 7th century CE. The consumption of rice wine during the reign of King Dongmyeong (37–19 BCE) is mentioned in the founding story of the kingdom of Goguryeo in Jewang ungi (Songs of Emperors and Kings), a 13th-century Goryeo Korean book.

There are a number of other early records mentioning rice wine in the Korean Peninsula. The Goryeo Korean book Samguk yusa (Memorabilia of the Three Kingdoms) mentions the brewing of yorye (醪醴, "cloudy rice wine") in the kingdom of Silla for King Suro of Gaya by his seventeenth-generation descendant in 661, in its section entitled Garakguk gi (Record of the State of Garak). In the Jin Chinese book Sānguózhì (Records of the Three Kingdoms), the section Dongyi (Eastern Foreigners) of the Wei Shu (Book of Wei) contains the observation that "the Goguryeo Koreans are skilled in making fermented foods such as wine, soybean paste, and salted and fermented fish". The Asuka Japanese book Kojiki (Records of Ancient Matters) makes reference in the section entitled Ōjin-tennō (Emperor Ōjin) to a man named Inbeon (仁番) from the kingdom of Baekje being taught how to brew wine. And the poem Gōngzishí (公子時), by the Tang Chinese poet Li Shangyin, refers to Silla wine (新羅酒) made with non-glutinous rice.

During the Goryeo dynasty, makgeolli was called ihwa-ju (이화주; 梨花酒, pear blossom alcohol), as the liquor was made when the pear trees were in blossom. This was associated in many communities in Korea around that time with a tradition of all-night drinking and dancing in special ceremonies. Makgeolli was brewed at home for centuries and was considered a "farmer's wine", or rural working-class beverage.

During the period of Japanese rule of Korea (1910–1945), the colonial government introduced a licensing system and taxed even for self-consumption, and by 1934, home brewing had been banned. The Park Chung Hee dictatorship also banned its making (1965) because of rice shortages. In 1990, the South Korean ban on brewing with rice was finally lifted, with home brewing again becoming legal only at the beginning of the 21st century. In the interim period, makgeolli was made from wheat.

The most-consumed alcoholic drink in South Korea in the 1960s and 1970s, makgeolli began to lose popularity in the 1970s with the rise of imported alcoholic beverages. Also, due to the national food shortage, the government banned making makgeolli using rice, and makgeolli was made by mixing 80% wheat flour and 20% corn. When flour was used, the quality of makgeolli deteriorated. As makgeolli was considered cheap and old-fashioned, sellers then focused on selling quantity rather than quality, with many makgeolli companies turning to mass production. In this process, the rice wine is usually brewed with a non-traditionally manufactured fermentation starter instead of the traditional nuruk. It is also diluted with water.

In the 21st century, makgeolli enjoyed a resurgence in urban areas and among younger generations. The health benefits and low alcohol proof of makgeolli, and a growing interest in cultural traditions in recent decades, have contributed to the revival. The product continues to be inexpensive, with a plastic, soft drink-style 750 ml (26 imp fl oz; 25 US fl oz) bottle costing around ₩1,200 ($1.05). Novelty high-end makgeolli are also produced, using traditional methods free of artificial additives. There were at least 700 small-scale breweries in production in South Korea in 2017. As of 2023, Geumjeongsanseong Makgeolli in Busan was the only officially recognized makgeolli master in the country.

Brewing

Makgeolli is made from rice using nuruk, a Korean fermentation starter. Nuruk is a dry cereal cake that has been allowed to ferment and mature to promote the growth of molds producing hydrolyzable enzymes that decompose the starches of the cereal grain into sugar. This sugar is then used by yeast to produce alcohol through fermentation. Different kinds of nuruk, made with different ingredients such as rice, wheat, barley, or mung beans, produce makgeolli of a variety of flavors.

Steamed rice, nuruk, and sometimes additional flavoring ingredients such as maize, chestnuts, fruits, herbs, and flowers are mixed and left to ferment in onggi, the same permeable clay crocks used for making kimchi, soy sauce, and other fermented foods.

The brewing process involves two stages: seed and main mash and main fermentation. Seed mash is the process of obtaining actively growing yeasts and enzymes in the mixture of yeast and nuruk. The tastes and aromas of the main mash develop with the transformation of the rice-derived nutrients and amino acids. Main fermentation lasts for about a week.

Makgeolli is best consumed fresh, a week or two after brewing. When freshly brewed, it has a milder and creamier taste. It acquires a stronger taste over time and turns into rice vinegar after a couple of months.

Traditionally, the wine was only created one way, but to reach out across the different age groups and for exporting purposes there are several different ways the wine is created. Once makgeolli has been exported, it can change as well. Many people also brew makgeolli at home these days. Traditionally, makgeolli is created unpasteurized.

Commercial production

Many mass-produced makgeolli are brewed with non-traditional manufactured fermentation starter instead of the traditional nuruk, and are diluted with water and contain additives such as aspartame. This gives the liquor sweetness without adding a fermentable carbohydrate, and thus increases shelf life. Flavorings such as fruit and ginseng are also sometimes added.

Consumption

Makgeolli is usually served chilled, in a bottle or in a pottery bowl with a ladle. Prior to drinking, it is stirred with the ladle, or the bottle is gently flipped upside down several times with the cap on, in order to mix in the settled sediment. It is then ladled or poured into individual small bowls, rather than cups, for drinking. This is because of the tendency of makgeolli to split into a cloudy white fraction that settles to the bottom and a clear, pale yellow liquid that rises to the top.

Makgeolli is often served with fried buchimgae, Korean pancakes, such as pajeon (made with scallions), haemul-panjeon (made with scallions and seafood), and bindae-tteok (made with mung beans and pork). Consuming makgeolli with these pancakes is a custom often associated with rainy days. There are a number of theories regarding the origin. The first theory is the effect of association, whereby the sound of the rain is similar to the sizzling sound of a pancake making, so when it rains, pajeon automatically comes to mind. The second theory has to do with traditional agricultural culture. When the farmers were not able to work due to the rain, especially during the rainy season of Summer, they made pajeon to soothe their hunger and accompanied it with makgeolli, a farmer's favorite drink. Naturally, it became a seasonal food, and the tradition has been passed down to this day.

Makgeolli may also be mixed with ice and fruits such as mango and pineapple to make fruit cocktails, or with saida (lemon-lime drink) to make a simple cocktail named maksa. Makgeolli mixed with kkul (honey) is called kkul-makgeolli.

Because of the microorganisms present during fermentation, makgeolli is a probiotic product. It contains high levels of lactic acid bacteria such as Lactobacillus, as well as vitamins, amino acids, and fiber. With a 1.9 percent protein content, over 10 amino acids, vitamin B, inositol and choline, makgeolli is reputed to increase metabolism, relieve fatigue and improve the complexion.

Gallery

bottled makgeolli

Various makgeolli

Makgeolli and dubu-kimchi

Makgeolli on traditional Korean table

Similar beverages

Dongdong-ju ("float-float wine") is a drink very similar to makgeolli, but slightly creamier and with unfiltered floating rice grains. The word dongdong is an ideophone for a small object floating by. Ihwa-ju ("pear-blossom wine") is so named because it is brewed from rice with rice malt which ferments during the pear-blossom season. Ihwaju is often so thick that it is eaten with a spoon. Dansul ("sweet wine") is a sweeter variety with partial fermentation. The Tibetan alcoholic beverage Chhaang is also very similar drink with its cloudy milky appearance along with its unfiltered rice sediments. During the Tibetan lunar new year, Tibetans drink a slight variation of Chaang by adding dried cheese, droma (a type of small tuber similar in taste to sweet potato) and nuts which is then heated and drunk warm. In Nepal, where chaang is enjoyed by the Newars and Sherpas, Korean produced bottled makgeoli is branded and sold as chaang.

Chinese choujiu and Japanese nigori are rice wines similar to makgeolli.

See also

Cheongju

Korean alcoholic beverages

Nigori – Japanese equivalent of Makgeolli

Choujiu – Chinese equivalent of Makgeolli

Zutho – Naga equivalent of Makgeolli

List of rice beverages

Drink portal

References

^ "makkoli". Oxford Dictionaries. Oxford University Press. Archived from the original on January 13, 2017. Retrieved 20 February 2017.

^ a b c d e Hirsch, J.M. (20 July 2015). "The next sparkling wine to try is Korean makgeolli". Toronto Sun. Retrieved 13 March 2018.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n Son, Angela; MacDonald, Joan Vos (8 August 2017). "Makgeolli in Seoul: Why this speciality liquor is only at its best in the South Korean capital". The Independent. Retrieved 13 March 2018.

^ a b c d Jung, Alex (12 July 2017). "Best Korean drinks -- from banana milk to hangover juice". CNN Travel. Retrieved 13 March 2018.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Schamberg, Anne (14 August 2015). "Makgeolli, a Korean rice wine, is an unfiltered joy". Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. Retrieved 13 March 2018.

^ a b c d e Callaghan, Adam H. (20 February 2017). "Should You Be Drinking Makgeolli?". Eater. Retrieved 13 March 2018.

^ [막걸리이즈백]②유튜브타고 세계로 퍼진 K-주류…김치전에 한잔. News1 (in Korean). 2020-11-30. Retrieved 2021-05-09.

^ a b "makgeolli". Standard Korean Language Dictionary (in Korean). National Institute of Korean Language. Archived from the original on 13 March 2018. Retrieved 13 March 2018.

^ a b c d e Rane, Jordan (30 May 2011). "Makgeolli: The rice wine revolution is here". CNN Travel. Retrieved 13 March 2018.

^ a b Kim, Tae-gyu (26 May 2010). "Makgeolli gains nickname Drunken Rice". The Korea Times. Retrieved 13 March 2018.

^ a b "Makgeolli yeongmun-pyogi 'drunken rice', nurikkun-deul "heol~"". The Kyunghyang Shinmun (in Korean). 28 May 2010. Retrieved 13 March 2018.

^ "Nihon-de "Hōsen-makkori" tōroku-shita hito-wa kangokujin". JoongAng Ilbo (in Japanese). 5 November 2009. Retrieved 17 November 2012.

^ a b Lee, Jinwoo (1 April 2011). "'Makgeolli' myeongching ilbon-e ppaeatgil pan". Asia Today (in Korean). Retrieved 2 April 2011.

^ a b Kim, Hee-sung (7 September 2009). "Say hello to the latest Korean fervor - makgeolli the rice wine". Korea.net. Korean Culture and Information Service. Retrieved 17 June 2016.

^ Il-yeon (1281). "Garakguk gi". Samguk yusa (in Literary Chinese). Gunwi, Korea: Ingaksa. Retrieved 13 March 2018 – via Korean History Database by National Institute of Korean History.

^ Chén, Shòu. "Wūwán Xiānbēi Dōngyí chuán". Sānguózhì (in Chinese). China – via Wikisource.

^ Ō, Yasumaro. "Ōjin-tennō". Kojiki (in Chinese). Japan – via Wikisource.

^ "Makgeolli". Doosan Encyclopedia (in Korean). Retrieved 13 March 2018.

^ a b Lee, Hyo-gee (Winter 1996). "History of Traditional Korean Alcoholic Drinks". Koreana. Vol. 10, no. 4. Archived from the original on 30 April 2009. Retrieved 26 April 2013.

^ Jake Kwon (23 May 2022). "Makgeolli: How Korean rice wine is stepping out of soju's shadow". CNN. Retrieved 2022-09-09.

^ a b c Swanson, Sonja (2019-05-01). "The secret history of makgeolli, the Korean alcohol with a yogurt-tart taste". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 2024-07-09.

^ 막걸리 (Makgeolli). terms.naver.com (in Korean). Retrieved 2021-04-11.

^ Cripps, Karla (2023-11-09). "Near the remains of South Korea's largest mountain fortress, the country's sole makgeolli master keeps a dying art alive". CNN. Retrieved 2024-11-13.

^ Choi, Jae-Suk; Lee, Yu-Ri; Ha, Yu-Mi; Seo, Hyo Ju; Kim, Young Hun; Park, Sun-Mee; Sohn, Jae Hak (2014-06-01). "Antibacterial Effect of Grapefruit Seed Extract (GSE) on Makgeolli-Brewing Microorganisms and Its Application in the Preservation of Fresh Makgeolli". Journal of Food Science. 79 (6): M1159–M1167. doi:10.1111/1750-3841.12469. ISSN 1750-3841. PMID 24773577.

^ a b c d Kang, Bo-Sik; Lee, Jang-Eun; Park, Hyun-Jin (2014-06-01). "Qualitative and Quantitative Prediction of Volatile Compounds from Initial Amino Acid Profiles in Korean Rice Wine (makgeolli) Model". Journal of Food Science. 79 (6): C1106–C1116. doi:10.1111/1750-3841.12489. ISSN 1750-3841. PMID 24888253.

^ Jeong, Stephen (25 May 2020). "Hyesun House: Make-Your-Own Makgeolli Kit". Hyesun House. Retrieved 25 May 2020.

^ "Alcohol production". Alcohol Statistics System (in Korean). Korea Public Health Association. Archived from the original on 15 March 2018. Retrieved 14 March 2018.

^ "Why Koreans love chimaek (chicken & beer), and eat pajeon & makgeolli on rainy days". Hyphe-Nated. Archived from the original on September 12, 2021. Retrieved 12 September 2021.

Bibimbap

Gimbap

Hoe-deopbap

Nurungji

Ogok-bap

Patbap

Kongbap

Bokkeum-bap

Jumeok-bap

Yaksik

Ssambap

Gukbap

Bulgogi

Galbi Dak-galbi

Dak-galbi

Samgyeopsal

Makchang

Galbijjim

Andong jjimdak

Gyeran-jjim

Agwi-jjim

Sannakji

Yukhoe

Sukhoe

Ganghoe

Kongnamul

Chwinamul

Jangajji

Saengchae

Golbaengi-muchim

Japchae

Pajeon

Kimchi-buchimgae

Bindae-tteok

Aehobakbuchimgae

Myeolchi

Ojingeo

Hanchi

Myeongnan

Gejang

Tteokguk

Haejang-guk

Miyeok-guk

Mandu-guk

Yukgaejang

Gukbap Gul-gukbap Dwaeji-gukbap

Gul-gukbap

Dwaeji-gukbap

Dak-hanmari

Seonjit-guk

Tang Bosintang Chueotang Dak-bokkeum-tang Galbitang Gamjatang Maeuntang Oritang Samgyetang Seolleongtang Yeonpo-tang

Bosintang

Chueotang

Dak-bokkeum-tang

Galbitang

Gamjatang

Maeuntang

Oritang

Samgyetang

Seolleongtang

Yeonpo-tang

Jijimi

Jjigae Doenjang-jjigae Cheonggukjang-jjigae Kimchi-jjigae Sundubu-jjigae Saeujeot-jjigae Budae-jjigae

Doenjang-jjigae

Cheonggukjang-jjigae

Kimchi-jjigae

Sundubu-jjigae

Saeujeot-jjigae

Budae-jjigae

Sinseollo

Jeongol Gopchang jeongol

Gopchang jeongol

Gamja-ongsimi

Naengmyeon

Milmyeon

Jjolmyeon

Japchae

Jajangmyeon

Jjamppong

Bibim-guksu

Sujebi

Janchi-guksu

Kal-guksu

Mak-guksu

Jat-guksu

Kong-guksu

Ramyeon

Jjapaguri

Gogi-guksu

Garak-guksu

Baechu-kimchi

Baek-kimchi

Dongchimi

Nabak-kimchi

Kkakdugi

Pa-kimchi

Yeolmu-kimchi

Gat-kimchi

Geotjeori

Tteokbokki

Sundae

Myeongtae

Korean Fried Chicken

Buldak

Hotteok

Jjinppang

Hoppang

Beondegi

Bungeoppang

Gyeranppang

Hangwa

Tteok Chapssaltteok Songpyeon Yaksik

Chapssaltteok

Songpyeon

Yaksik

Mandu Kimchi mandu Eo-mandu

Kimchi mandu

Eo-mandu

Bokkeum

Anju Jokbal Jokpyeon Pyeonyuk

Jokbal

Jokpyeon

Pyeonyuk

Makgeolli

Cheongju

Dansul

Baekse-ju

Green tea

Insam-cha

Saenggang-cha

Sujeonggwa

Sikhye

Yuja-cha

Bori-cha

Oksusu-cha

Hyeonmi-cha

Sungnyung

Yulmu-cha

Misutgaru

Ambasa

Dalgona coffee

Hangover drinks

Sikhye

Hwachae

Sujeonggwa

Sinseollo

Gujeolpan

Jangguk-juk

Jatjuk

Jeho-tang

Neobiani

Onjium

Baesuk

Tangpyeong-chae

Tarak-juk

Tteok-galbi

Wolgwa-chae

Yuja-hwachae

Jjinppang

Hoppang

Hotteok

Bungeoppang

Gukhwa-ppang

Gyeranppang

Soboro-ppang

Soy sauce Soup soy sauce

Soup soy sauce

Persimmon vinegar

Rice vinegar

Doenjang

Gochujang

Ssamjang

Cheong

Dishes Jeju dishes Seoul dishes

Jeju dishes

Seoul dishes

Ingredients

Bunsik

Beer in South Korea

Street food in South Korea

List of oldest restaurants in South Korea

Category

Amazake

Andong soju

Awamori

Baekse-ju

Beopju

Cheongju Beopju

Beopju

Chhaang

Choujiu

Cơm rượu

Dansul

Gwaha-ju

Huangjiu

Jiuniang

Kuchikamizake

Lao khao

Lihing

Makgeolli

Nigori

Pangasi

Rice baijiu

Rice shochu

Rượu cần

Rượu đế

Rượu nếp

Shaoxing wine

Sra peang

Tamagozake

Black vinegar

Brown rice green tea

Brown rice tea

Genmaicha

Horchata

Jūrokucha

Kokkoh

Rice milk

Rice water

Sikhye

Sungnyung

List of rice drinks

History of alcoholic beverages

History of beer

History of wine History of Bordeaux wine History of Champagne History of Chianti History of Rioja wine History of Sherry

History of Bordeaux wine

History of Champagne

History of Chianti

History of Rioja wine

History of Sherry

Alcohol industry

Bathtub gin

Brewing Brewery Malting Lautering Wort Yeast

Brewery

Malting

Lautering

Distillation

Drinking establishments

Fermentation Simple syrup Yeast in winemaking

Simple syrup

Yeast in winemaking

Winemaking Yeast in winemaking

Yeast in winemaking

Apple Cider

Banana Banana beer Banana wine

Banana beer

Banana wine

Bignay Bignay wine

Bignay wine

Bokbunja Bokbunja-ju

Bokbunja-ju

Grape Madeira wine Marsala wine Mistelle Moscatel de Setúbal Orange wine Port wine Red wine Rosé wine Sherry Vermouth White wine

Madeira wine

Marsala wine

Mistelle

Moscatel de Setúbal

Orange wine

Port wine

Red wine

Rosé wine

Sherry

Vermouth

White wine

Java plum Duhat wine

Duhat wine

Longan Longan wine

Longan wine

Lychee Lychee wine

Lychee wine

Pear Perry

Pineapple Tepache

Tepache

Plum Plum jerkum

Plum jerkum

Pomegranate Rimon

Prickly pear Colonche

Colonche

Various fruits Conditum Dubonnet Hippocras Jabol Mulled wine Nabidh Pruno Sangria

Conditum

Dubonnet

Hippocras

Mulled wine

Nabidh

Sangria

Barley Barley wine

Barley wine

Corn Mageu Pozol Tejuino Tesgüino

Tejuino

Tesgüino

Millet Oshikundu Tongba

Oshikundu

Tongba

Rice Agkud Amazake Apo Beopju Brem Choujiu Chuak Dansul Gwaha-ju Hariya Makgeolli Mijiu Mirin Pangasi Rice wine Rượu cần Sake Sato Shaoxing wine Sonti Tapai Tapuy Zu

Amazake

Beopju

Choujiu

Dansul

Gwaha-ju

Hariya

Makgeolli

Pangasi

Rice wine

Rượu cần

Shaoxing wine

Rye Kvass

Sorghum Pendhā

Pendhā

Multiple grains Ale Ara Beer Boza Huangjiu

Huangjiu

Agave americana Pulque

Pulque

Coconut and other palms Bahalina Palm wine Tuak Tubâ Tuhak Tunggang

Bahalina

Palm wine

Tunggang

Dairy Kumis

Ginger Ginger wine

Ginger wine

Galangal Byais

Honey Bais Byais Kabarawan Mead

Kabarawan

Sugar Kilju

Sugarcane or molasses Basi Intus Palek

Tea Fermented tea Kombucha

Fermented tea

Kombucha

Various starches Cauim Chicha Parakari Ibwatu

Chicha

Parakari

Ibwatu

Apple Applejack Calvados

Applejack

Calvados

Cashew apple Feni

Cherry Kirschwasser

Kirschwasser

Dates Araqi

Fig Boukha

Boukha

Grape Arak Armagnac Brandy Cognac Pisco Zivania

Armagnac

Brandy

Cognac

Zivania

Juniper Gin

Pear Poire Williams

Poire Williams

Plum Slivovitz Țuică

Slivovitz

Pomace Chacha Grappa Marc Orujo Tsikoudia Tsipouro Zivania

Chacha

Grappa

Tsikoudia

Tsipouro

Zivania

Various fruits Eau de vie Fruit brandy Geist Himbeergeist Marillenschnaps Nalewka Oghi Pálinka Rakia Schnaps

Eau de vie

Fruit brandy

Himbeergeist

Marillenschnaps

Nalewka

Pálinka

Schnaps

Barley Irish whiskey Japanese whisky Scotch whisky

Irish whiskey

Japanese whisky

Scotch whisky

Beer Bierbrand

Bierbrand

Buckwheat Buckwheat whisky

Buckwheat whisky

Maize Bourbon whiskey Corn whiskey Tennessee whiskey

Bourbon whiskey

Corn whiskey

Tennessee whiskey

Rice Awamori Cheongju Cholai Lao-Lao Lihing Mixiang Baijiu Shochu Soju Sulai

Awamori

Cheongju

Cholai

Lao-Lao

Lihing

Mixiang Baijiu

Shochu

Rye Korn Rye whiskey Starka

Rye whiskey

Starka

Sorghum Baijiu (Kaoliang liquor)

Baijiu (Kaoliang liquor)

Multiple grains Ara American whiskey Baijiu Canadian whisky Shōchū Whisky

American whiskey

Baijiu

Canadian whisky

Shōchū

Whisky

Agave Mezcal Tequila

Mezcal

Tequila

Coconut and other palms Arrack Laksoy Lambanog Sotol

Arrack

Laksoy

Lambanog

Dairy Arkhi

Maple syrup Acerum

Acerum

Sugarcane or molasses Aguardiente Cachaça Clairin Desi daru Guaro Rum Seco Herrerano Sulai Sura Tharra

Aguardiente

Cachaça

Clairin

Desi daru

Seco Herrerano

Tharra

Various starches Aguardiente Akvavit Bangla Horilka Poitín Shōchū Vodka

Aguardiente

Akvavit

Bangla

Horilka

Poitín

Shōchū

Almond Amaretto Crème de Noyaux

Amaretto

Crème de Noyaux

Anise Absinthe Anisado Anisado Mallorca Anisette Arak Hierbas Hierbas de Mallorca Mastika Ouzo Rakı Sambuca

Absinthe

Anisado Anisado Mallorca

Anisado Mallorca

Anisado Mallorca

Anisette

Hierbas Hierbas de Mallorca

Hierbas de Mallorca

Hierbas de Mallorca

Mastika

Sambuca

Beer Bierlikör

Bierlikör

Blackcurrant buds Kontabas

Kontabas

Blackthorn shrub Patxaran

Patxaran

Caraway Kümmel

Kümmel

Cherry Cherry Heering Guignolet Maraschino Wiśniówka/Vyshnivka

Cherry Heering

Guignolet

Maraschino

Wiśniówka/Vyshnivka

Chili peppers Pertsivka

Pertsivka

Chocolate Chocolate liqueur

Chocolate liqueur

Cinnamon Tentura

Tentura

Cloudberry Lakka

Coconut Malibu

Malibu

Coffee Kahlúa Tia Maria

Kahlúa

Tia Maria

Cream Cream liqueur Irish cream

Cream liqueur

Irish cream

Egg Advocaat Eggnog

Advocaat

Eggnog

Hazelnut Frangelico

Frangelico

Herbs Amaro Aquavit Aperol Becherovka Bénédictine Bitters Brennivín Chartreuse Crème de menthe Crème de violette Jägermeister Kräuterlikör Metaxa Riga Black Balsam Vana Tallinn Unicum Żubrówka

Aquavit

Aperol

Becherovka

Bénédictine

Bitters

Brennivín

Chartreuse

Crème de menthe

Crème de violette

Jägermeister

Kräuterlikör

Metaxa

Riga Black Balsam

Vana Tallinn

Unicum

Żubrówka

Honey Bärenjäger Drambuie Glayva Irish Mist Krambambula Krupnik

Bärenjäger

Drambuie

Glayva

Irish Mist

Krambambula

Krupnik

Juniper Borovička Brinjevec Gin Jenever

Borovička

Brinjevec

Jenever

Mammee apple flower Eau créole

Eau créole

Maple syrup Maple liqueur

Maple liqueur

Orange Cointreau Curaçao Grand Marnier Triple sec

Cointreau

Curaçao

Grand Marnier

Triple sec

Raspberry Chambord

Chambord

Star anise Pastis Sassolino

Pastis

Sassolino

Sugarcane/molasses Charanda

Charanda

Vanilla Licor 43

Licor 43

Various fruits Campari Cedratine Crème de banane Crème de cassis Limoncello Nalewka Schnapps Sloe gin

Campari

Cedratine

Crème de banane

Crème de cassis

Limoncello

Nalewka

Schnapps

Sloe gin

Walnut Nocino

Nocino

# Korean royal court cuisine


Korean royal court cuisine was the style of cookery within Korean cuisine traditionally consumed at the court of the Joseon Dynasty, which ruled Korea from 1392 to 1897. There has been a revival of this cookery style in the 21st century. It is said that twelve dishes should be served along with rice and soup, with most dishes served in bangjja (bronzeware).

History

Collectively known as gungjung eumsik during the pre-modern era, the foods of the royal palace reflected the opulent nature of the past rulers of the Korean peninsula. The opulent nature of the royalty is evidenced in examples as far back as the Silla kingdom, where a man-made lake (Anapji Lake, located in Gyeongju) was created with multiple pavilions and halls for the sole purpose of opulent banquets and a spring-fed channel, Poseokjeong, was created for the singular purpose of setting wine cups afloat during the writing of poems.

Reflecting the regionalism of the kingdoms and bordering countries of the peninsula, the cuisine borrowed from each of these areas to function as a showcase. The royalty had the finest regional delicacies sent to the palace. Although there are records of banquets pre-dating the Joseon period, the majority of these records note a vast variety of foods without mentioning the specific foods present. The meals cooked for the royal family were not seasonal, like a commoner's meal. Instead, they varied significantly day to day. The eight provinces were represented each month in turn in the royal palace by ingredients presented by their governors. This gave the cooks a wide assortment of ingredients to use for royal meals.

Food held a very important place in Joseon period. Official positions were created within the Six Ministries (State Council, 육조) that were charged with all matters related to procurement and consumption of food and drink for the royal court. The Board of Personnel (Ijo, 이조) contained positions specific for attaining rice for the royal family. The Board of Rites (Yejo) were responsible for foods prepared for ancestor rites, attaining wines and other beverages, and medicinal foods. There were also hundreds of slaves and women who worked in the palace that had tasks such as making tofu, liquor, tea, and tteok (rice cakes). The women were the cooks to the royal palace and were of commoner or low-status families. These women would be split into specific skill sets or "bureaus" such as the Bureau of special foods (Saenggwa-bang, 생과방) or the Bureau of cooking foods (Soju-bang, 소주방). These female cooks may have been assisted by male cooks from outside the palace during larger banquets when necessary.

Five meals were generally served in the royal palace each day during the Joseon period, and records suggest this pattern had existed from antiquity. Three of these meals would be full-course meals, while the afternoon and after dinner meals would consist of lighter fare. The first meal, mieumsang (미음상), was served at sunrise on days when the king and queen were not taking herbal medicines. The meal consisted of rice porridge (juk, 죽) made with ingredients such as abalone (jeonbokjuk), white rice (huinjuk), mushrooms (beoseotjuk), pine nuts (jatjuk), and sesame (kkaejuk). The side dishes could consist of kimchi, nabak kimchi, oysters, soy sauce, and other items. The porridge was thought to give vitality to the king and queen throughout the day.

The sura (수라) were the main meals of the day. Breakfast was served at ten in the morning and the evening meals were served between six and seven at night. The set of three tables (surasang, 수라상), were usually set with two types of rice, two types of soup, two types of stew (jjigae), one dish of jjim (meat stew), one dish of jeongol (a casserole of meat and vegetables), three types of kimchi, three types of jang (장) and twelve side dishes, or called 12 cheop (12첩). The meals were set in the surakan (수라간), a room specifically used for taking meals, with the king seated to the east and the queen to the west. Each had their own set of tables and were attended by three palace servant women known as sura sanggung (수라상궁). These women would remove bowl covers and offer the foods to the king and queen after ensuring that the dishes were not poisoned.

This Korean food heritage has been inscribed by the government as Important Intangible Cultural Property No. 38. Han Bok-ryeo (한복려; 韓福麗) is the current Living National Treasure as the keeper of this property.

Surasang setting

The surasang should be served with three tables and a hotpot. The largest round table on the left is the main table which contains main bowl, soups and stews, dishes, side dishes and fermented stored dishes. The small round table at the lower right corner contains red sura, gomtang or thick meat broth, dessert, tea, empty dishes and bowls. This table is also used to store the covers of bowls and dishes used in the main table. The rectangular table in the upper right corner contains eggs, sesame oil, various raw vegetables and several sauces. The hotpot in the middle right is heated with charcoal, and usually contains jeongol such as sinseollo.

The setting was as follows:

A, B, C: surasanggung (수라상궁)

songsongi (송송이): cubed radish kimchi

jeotgugji (젓국지): kimchi from Korean cabbage seasoned with jeotgal

dongchimi (동치미): white kimchi

jeotgal (젓갈): fermented, salted seafood

jorigae (조리개): hard-boiled food with heavy seasonings

namul (나물): seasoned vegetable side dishes

saengche (생채): fresh salad

jjim (찜): steamed or boiled dishes

mareunchan (마른찬): dried foods

janggwa (장과): braised seafood

pyeonyuk (편육): boiled and seasoned meat pressed by heavy weight and then sliced thinly

changui (찬구이): fried Codonopsis lanceolata (더덕, deodeok) and kim

jeonyuhwa (전유화): pancake-like fried dish

Jeotguk jochi (젓국 조치): kind of fish soup

togu (토구): a plate used to hold bones during the meal

jang (장): soy sauce

chojang (초장): soy sauce with vinegar

cho gochujang (초 고추장): chili paste with vinegar

tojang jochi (토장 조치): soybean soup

huinsura (흰수라): white rice

gwaktang (곽탕): seaweed soup

chaeso (채소): vegetables

gogi (고기): meat

jangguk (장국): soybean paste soup

dalgyal (달걀): egg

jeongol (전골): type of stew

jaengban (쟁반) and chasu (차수): teapot and plate

gongjeobsi(공접시): empty plate

gonggi (공기): empty bowl

suran (수란): poached egg

hoe (회): raw fish and meat

deoungui (더운구이): hot grilled meat

hongban (홍반) or patsura (팥수라): rice with azuki beans

gomtang (곰탕): soup from beef meat and bones

Main dishes served in a bowl

Sura (수라) is a bowl of boiled rice and grains. Two kinds of sura must always be served. This includes white sura.

White sura (흰수라): boiled rice without any additional ingredients.

Red sura (홍반): boiled rice made with the boiled water of azuki beans.

Five-grain sura (오곡수라): made by boiling rice, sweet rice, glutinous millet, and azuki beans

Goldongban (골동반): boiled rice mixed with steamed vegetables, roasted beef, and a fried egg. In the royal palace, bibimbap was known as goldongban.

Juk, mieum, and eungi

Juk (죽) and mieum (미음) or eung-i (응이) are types of rice porridge usually served in the morning. Juk is thicker than mieum in texture, the latter of which is similar to the Western gruel.

Omija eungi (오미자응이): Omija berries are boiled and honey is then added to the boiled omija. The boiled omija berries are taken out. Mung bean starch is then added and the liquid is boiled again.

Sok mieum (속미음): Sweet rice, red jujubes, ginseng root, and chestnuts are simmered.

Jatjuk : Rice is soaked and pine nuts are ground before being boiled in water.

Hangin juk (행인죽): Apricot kernels are peeled and ground with rice. The rice and apricot seed mixture is boiled.

Heukimjajuk (흑임자죽): Black sesame seeds are ground and boiled with rice.

Tarakjuk (타락죽): Soaked rice is boiled with water, and then cow milk is added. It is then boiled some more.

Janggukjuk (장국죽): Ground beef and chopped shiitake mushrooms are boiled together.

Other dishes include dalgyal samhap mieum, jo mieum, sok mieum, chajo mieum, yulmu eungi, nokmal eungi, and omija eungi.

Guksu (국수) are noodles that are prepared with buckwheat or wheat flour, with the former being preferred.

Myeon sinseollo (면신선로): Boiled sliced beef shank, paeju (패주), Korean parsley, and sliced bamboo sprouts are boiled with beef stock. Boiled guksu is added to the ready beef stock mixture.

Onmyeon (온면): Stock made from beef brisket is added to roast beef, sliced egg pancake, and guksu.

Nanmyeon (난면): Wheat flour is mixed with eggs to make noodles. They are then served with beef stock.

Domimyeon (도미면): Noodle soup made with panfish, sliced egg pancakes, ginkgo seeds, walnuts, fried meatballs, and pine nuts.

Other guksu dishes include jangguk naengmyeon, kimchiguk naengmyung, and bibim naengmyeon. Simple naengmyeon is also popular.

Mandu and ddeokguk

Mandu (만두) are boiled or steamed dumplings. Mandu dough is made from either wheat flour or buckwheat. The dough is then stuffed with various fillings. Tteokguk (떡국) is a soup made of tteok (glutinous rice cakes).

Jangguk mandu (장국만두): Kimchi, pork, and tofu are used as filling.

Saengchi mandu (생치만두): Ringneck pheasant, dropwort, cabbage, and shiitake mushrooms are used as filling. Buckwheat dough is used. The prepared saengchi mandu is then boiled in meat stock.

Donga mandu (동아만두): Mandu made with winter melon, chicken and starch. It is steamed and then boiled in meat stock.

Pyeonsu (편수): Mandu made with beef, cucumber, green bean sprouts, shiitake mushrooms, and rock tripe.

Tteokguk (떡국): Tteok sliced in rounds to resemble coins, and boiled with meat stock. It is served with egg pancake slices and roasted ground meat.

Other varieties include gyuasang (규아상) and junchi mandu (만두).

Eo mandu (어만두): Mandu made with thinly sliced fish flesh as its wrap and stuffed with minced beef, vegetables, and several spices.

Dishes

Tang is a type of soup made with beef shank, intestines, a knuckle (bone) and beef brisket.

Malgeun guk (맑은 국): a hot and clear soup, and includes Mu-guk (무국), clear beef soup, Miyeok guk, dried pollock soup, etc.

Gomguk: a thick soup made so by simmering for a long time. Varieties include gomtang (곰탕), seolleongtang (설렁탕), yukgaejang (육개장), etc.

Tojangguk (토장국): a soup flavored with doenjang (fermented soybean paste). This includes cabbage tonjangguk, spinach tojangguk, etc.

Naengguk : a soup served cold. This includes kkaeguktang, oinaengguk, and wakame cold soup.

Jochi and gamjeong

Jochi (조치) and gamjeong (감정) are stew-like dishes which are now called jjigae. If seasoned with gochujang, they are called gamjeong. Jochi is seasoned with salt or salted shrimp. Other varieties include:

Crab gamjeong

Cucumber gamjeong

Oyster jochi

Zucchini jochi

Fish jochi

Jjim and seon

Jjim (찜): steamed or boiled beef, pork, and fish seasoned with vegetables. Seon (선) is steamed vegetables, tofu, and fish stuffed with fillings made with beef or chicken and onions.

Swellfish jjim

Bure jjim (부레찜)

Red sea bream jjim or Pagrus major jjim

Ox tail jjim

Dubuseon (두부선), steamed tofu with fillings

Gajiseon (가지선), made with eggplant

Oiseon (오이선), made with cucumber

Hobakseon (호박선), made with zucchini

Museon (무선), made with radish

Baechuseon (배추선), made with napa cabbage

Jeongol and sinseollo

Jeongol and sinseollo are similar to Western stew or Chinese hotpot. Sinseollo (which is a variety of jeongol) is boiled in meat stock with various vegetables and mushrooms in a specific cooking pot with holes. Jeongol and sinseollo are served with a burner.

Domi guksu jeongol, made with noodles and Red seabream

Nakji jeongol, made with small octopus

Dubu jeongol, made with tofu

Side dishes

Saengchae

Saengchae (생채) is like a salad seasoned with salt, vinegar, soy sauce, or mustard sauce.

Mu saengchae, made of shredded radish

Oi saengchae, made of cucumber

Deodeok saengchae, made of deodeok root (Codonopsis lanceolata, a species of bonnet bellflower).

Seomchorongkkot saengchae, made of Korean bellflower, etc.

Namul (나물) are any variety of steamed vegetables seasoned with hot pepper, garlic, green onion, salt, and sesame or perilla oil. Typical vegetables include spinach, radish, royal fern, bracken, zucchini, green bean sprouts, Korean bellflower, bamboo shoots, etc. In some cases, dangmyeon (potato starch noodles) and roasted beef can be used as well.

Gujeolpan

Japchae

Tangpyeonchae

Jorigae

Jorigae (조리개) hard-boiled foods with heavy seasonings. Meats, fish and vegetable are mainly used.

Beef jorigae (우육조리개)

Sliced steamed beef jorigae (우편육조리개)

Sliced steamed pork jorigae (돈편육조리개)

Small yellow croaker jorigae (조기조리개)

Jeonyuhwa

Jeonyuhwa (전유화) or sometimes jeon: a dish resembling a pancake. The main ingredients can be lightly battered with egg and wheat flour. Eggs, flour, and other ingredients can be mixed to make pancakes.

Jogaejeon, made with shellfish

Saeu jeon, made with shrimp

Gochu jeon, made with hot pepper

Bindaetteok (빈대떡) made from ground mung beans and other ingredients

Yeongeun jeon, made with sliced lotus root

Pajeon, made with green onions

Gui is a generic Korean cuisine term for roasted and seasoned dishes. The main ingredients include green laver, beef, the root of deodeok (Codonopsis lanceolata; 더덕), fish, mushrooms, vegetables, Aralia elata sprouts (두릅), etc.

Garibi gui (가리비구이) or gari gui (가리구리), old term for galbi, grilled short ribs seasoned with soy sauce

Garibi gui (가리비구이), grilled scallops

Neobiani (너비아니), ancient form of bulgogi

Pogui (포구이), grilled po (either dried meat jerky, or fish)

Dak sanjeok (닭산적), grilled chicken and vegetables on skewers

Hwayang seok (화양적), various marinated ingredients grilled on skewers

Hoe (hweh)

Hoe (회) is raw fish or raw seasoned beef

Yukhoe, raw seasoned beef

Gaksaek hoe (각색회)

Gabhoe (갑회), etc.

Jang (장류)

sauce Doenjang : soybean paste like miso, but containing some whole and partially crushed beans, fermented in crocks until very mellow Cheonggukjang : more pungent soybean paste, fermented for only a few days. Contains some whole or partially crushed soybeans. Cheongjang (청장): "bright" sauce (soy sauce with vinegar) Gochujang: hot pepper soybean paste sauce Chogochujang (초고추장): vinegar hot pepper soybean paste sauce Gyeojajeub (겨자즙): mustard sauce

Doenjang : soybean paste like miso, but containing some whole and partially crushed beans, fermented in crocks until very mellow

Cheonggukjang : more pungent soybean paste, fermented for only a few days. Contains some whole or partially crushed soybeans.

Cheongjang (청장): "bright" sauce (soy sauce with vinegar)

Gochujang: hot pepper soybean paste sauce

Chogochujang (초고추장): vinegar hot pepper soybean paste sauce

Gyeojajeub (겨자즙): mustard sauce

Banchan (반찬)

dishes Changui (찬구이): cold roast of laver and Codonopsis lanceolata root, a bonnet bellflower species called deodeok (더덕) in Korean Deoungui (더운구이): hot roast of meat, fish, etc. Jeonyuhwa (전유화): pancake of meat, fish, and vegetables Pyeonyuk (편육): steamed meat Sukchae (숙채): steamed vegetables Saengchae (생채): raw seasoned vegetables Jorim: lightly boiled meat, fish and vegetables with seasoning Janggwa (장과): fermented vegetables in soy sauce Jeotgal: fermented salty fish Mareulchan (마른찬): dried slices of meat seasoned with spices, fried kelp, and dried salty fish Hoe (회): raw fish or beef, or fermented raw fish Chansuran (찬수란): cold soup with vegetables or boiled meat Chasu (차수): tea made from grains

Changui (찬구이): cold roast of laver and Codonopsis lanceolata root, a bonnet bellflower species called deodeok (더덕) in Korean

Deoungui (더운구이): hot roast of meat, fish, etc.

Jeonyuhwa (전유화): pancake of meat, fish, and vegetables

Pyeonyuk (편육): steamed meat

Sukchae (숙채): steamed vegetables

Saengchae (생채): raw seasoned vegetables

Jorim: lightly boiled meat, fish and vegetables with seasoning

Janggwa (장과): fermented vegetables in soy sauce

Jeotgal: fermented salty fish

Mareulchan (마른찬): dried slices of meat seasoned with spices, fried kelp, and dried salty fish

Hoe (회): raw fish or beef, or fermented raw fish

Chansuran (찬수란): cold soup with vegetables or boiled meat

Chasu (차수): tea made from grains

Dessert

Tteok (rice cake)

Mostly made of rice, it is eaten as a dessert or on Chuseok, which falls on the 15th day of the 8th month in the Korean calendar (lunisolar). These rice cakes vary from containing sweet red bean rice to sesame seeds. Most of these rice cakes are mildly sweet and are enjoyed by everyone from young to old.

Tea and fruit punch

Sikhye:

A sweet rice punch. Being an iconic Korean traditional drink, several varieties of canned sikhye are now widely available.

Sujeonggwa:

A sweet drink flavored with ginger and cinnamon. Softened dried persimmons and pine nuts are added at serving time.

Fruit Hwachae: fruit punch made by mixing several fruits together, or only one fruit used. The ingredients are cherries, strawberries, peaches, or watermelons. There are also hwachae with floating azalea petals, boiled barley, pine pollen, or slices of pear in omija-flavored water, sweetened with honey or sugar.

See also

Food portal

South Korea portal

Hanjeongsik

Dae Jang Geum

^ Pettid, 129

^ Pettid, 130.

^ Pettid, 132.

^ Pettid, 130-132.

^ Pettid, 133.

^ Pettid, 134-135.

^ "Special Interview - Han Bok-Ryeo, Master of Korean Royal Cuisine". HanCinema. 2009-12-07. Retrieved 2013-05-10.

^ "Vive La Korean Food! Hallyu Revitalizes Culinary Tradition". The Korea Times. 20 March 2008. Retrieved 2013-05-10.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s Pettid, Michael J. Daily Meals, Korean cuisine: an illustrated history. China: Reaktion Books Ltd, pages 133-138. (2008) ISBN 978-1-86189-348-2

^ "Types of kimchi". Korea Tourism Organization. Archived from the original on 2013-01-05. Retrieved 2013-03-26.

^ "Jeotgal". Seoul City. Archived from the original on 2004-04-23.

^ "Health food – Chiyuk-jorigae". Suragan. Archived from the original on February 16, 2022. Retrieved 2013-05-14.

^ "The Wide World of Namul". About.com. 2011-06-17. Archived from the original on 2011-07-30. Retrieved 2013-04-04.

^ "Saengchae". Korea Tourism Organization. Archived from the original on 2016-03-04. Retrieved 2013-05-13.

^ a b "The general kinds of Korea Food". Korea Tourism Organization. Archived from the original on 2012-05-08. Retrieved 2013-04-04.

^ "Mareunchan". Korea Tourism Organization. Archived from the original on 2016-03-04. Retrieved 2013-05-13.

^ "Janggwa". Korea Tourism Organization. Archived from the original on 2016-03-05. Retrieved 2013-05-13.

^ Lee Jong-im Director, Korea Food and Culture Research Center. "Pyeonyuk : Sliced Beef". Koreana. Archived from the original on 2015-04-12. Retrieved 2013-04-05.

^ a b 궁중음식 (in Korean). e-foodservice.co.kr. Archived from the original on 2001-11-15. Retrieved 2013-05-14.

^ "A List of Korean Savory Pancakes". About.com. Archived from the original on 2013-02-11. Retrieved 2013-04-05.

^ 젓국 (in Korean). Foodnara. Retrieved 2013-05-15.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link)

^ "Korean Food: Stews". Life in Korea. Archived from the original on 2013-03-08. Retrieved 2013-04-03.

^ 홍반 (in Korean). Daum Dictionary. Retrieved 2013-05-15.

^ "GOM-TANG". Trifood.com. Archived from the original on 2011-05-29. Retrieved 2013-04-02.

^ "Food Fit For A King". Korea Taste. 2011-05-09. Archived from the original on 2011-12-23. Retrieved 2013-05-13.

^ 오곡수라 (in Korean). Daum Dictionary. Retrieved 2013-05-13.

^ 골동반 (in Korean). Daum Dictionary. Retrieved 2013-05-13.

^ 죽,'현대'와 죽이맞다 (in Korean). The Chosun Ilbo. 2012-07-10. Archived from the original on 2015-04-02. Retrieved 2013-05-13.

^ 죽, 미음, 응이 (in Korean). Hanjin Mall. Archived from the original on 2015-04-02. Retrieved 2013-05-13.

^ 속미음 Archived 2010-03-06 at the Wayback Machine (in Korean) Doosan Encyclopedia

^ Neobiani uses the same sauce as Bulgogi(Korean Barbecue), but the meat is thicker and its cooking methods are relatively simple because it does not require cooking vegetables together. The beef is cut into thick portions, and in order to tenderize the meat and give the same texture as steak, small knife cuts are made all around the meat, and after marinating in a sauce that is made less sweet, it is grilled over an open fire or in a pan."Korean Food Foundation". Archived from the original on 2014-03-15. Retrieved 2014-03-15.

References

Pettid, Michael J., Korean Cuisine: An Illustrated History, London: Reaktion Books Ltd., 2008.

조문수. 궁중음식 [Korean royal court cuisine] (in Korean). Jeju University. Archived from the original on 15 November 2001. Retrieved 16 May 2009.

External links

Institute of Korean Royal Cuisine

(in Korean) General information about Korean royal court cuisine from KOPIA

(in Korean) General information about Korean royal court cuisine from Jeonbuk Food Culture Plaza

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

# Korean temple cuisine


Korean temple cuisine (Korean: 사찰음식) refers to a type of cuisine that originated in Buddhist temples of Korea. Since Buddhism was introduced into Korea, Buddhist traditions have strongly influenced Korean cuisine as well. During the Silla period (57 BC – 935 AD), chalbap (찰밥, a bowl of cooked glutinous rice) yakgwa (약과, a fried dessert) and yumilgwa (a fried and puffed rice snack) were served for Buddhist altars and have been developed into types of hangwa, Korean traditional confectionery. During the Goryeo period, sangchu ssam (wraps made with lettuce), yaksik, and yakgwa were developed, so spread to China and other countries. Since the Joseon Dynasty, Buddhist cuisine has been established in Korea according to regions and temples.

On the other hand, royal court cuisine is closely related to Korean temple cuisine. In the past, when the royal court maids called sanggung, who were assigned to Suragan (수라간; 水剌間; the name of the royal kitchen), where they prepared the king's meals, became old, they had to leave the royal palace. Therefore, many of them entered Buddhist temples to become nuns. As the result, culinary techniques and recipes of the royal cuisine were integrated into Buddhist cuisine.

Dishes by region

Baek kimchi (white kimchi) to which pine nuts have been added, bossam kimchi (보쌈김치), and gosu kimchi (고수김치, coriander kimchi) are famous in Buddhist temples of Gyeonggi and Chungcheong Province. In Jeolla Province, godeulppagi kimchi (고들빼기김치, kimchi made with Youngia sonchifolia), gat kimchi (갓김치, kimchi made with Brassica juncea var. integrifolia), and juksun kimchi (죽순김치, bamboo shoot kimchi), all of which include deulkkaejuk (perilla congee) as an ingredient, are famous. None of these varieties of kimchi contain garlic, scallions, or jeotgal (salted fermented seafood), as foods in the genus Allium are generally avoided by traditional Buddhist monks and nuns of China, Korea, Vietnam, Japan, and India.

Dishes by temple

Tongdosa located in Yangsan, South Gyeongsang Province is known for its dureup muchim (두릅무침, sauteed shoots of Aralia elata), pyeogobap (표고밥, shiitake rice), nokdu chalpyeon (녹두찰편, steamed tteok, a rice cake made with mung beans) are well-known dishes as well as kimchi, saengchae (생채, cold salad), twigak (튀각, a fried dish with without coating), and jeon (pancake) made with young shoots of Toona sinensis. The species is called chamjuk, literally meaning "true bamboo" in Korean because its shoots can be eaten like bamboo shoots. However, the dishes are prefixed with either chanmjuk or "gajuk" (가죽; lit. 'false bamboo') according to region.

Haeinsa, located in Hapcheon, South Gyeongsang Province, is not only famous for the Tripitaka Koreana but also specialty of the temple cuisine such as sangchu bulttuk kimchi (상추불뚝김치, lettuce kimchi), gaji jijim (가지지짐, pan-fried sliced eggplant), gosu muchim (고수무침, sauteed coriander leaves), sandongbaekip bugak (산동백잎부각, fried leaves of Lindera obtusiloba), meouitang (머위탕 Petasites japonicus soup), songibap (송이밥, rice dish made with matsutake), solipcha (솔잎차, tea made with leaves of Pinus densiflora).

See also

Buddhist cuisine

Korean cuisine

Buddhism in Korea

Temple Stay

^ a b c d "Sachal eumsik (사찰음식 寺刹飮食)" (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 2008-09-23. Retrieved 2008-08-08.

^ Song, Min-seop (송민섭) (2008-05-08). 심신이 맑아지는 사찰음식…마음까지 정갈 (in Korean). Seyeo Ilbo. Retrieved 2008-08-08.

^ 사찰 음식, 정신을 수양하며 건강을 먹는다. JoongAng Ilbo (in Korean). Archived from the original on 2011-07-13. Retrieved 2008-08-09.

^ "www.encyber.com/plant/detail/782528/". Archived from the original on 2008-08-29. Retrieved 2008-08-09.

Bibliography

"Significance of Temple Food". Korea Temple. Archived from the original on 2007-03-15. Retrieved 2008-08-08.

"History of Temple Food". Korea Temple. Archived from the original on 2007-03-15. Retrieved 2008-08-08.

Kim Yeon-sik (김연식) (1999). 한국사찰음식 (in Korean). Uri Publishing (우리출판사). ISBN 89-7561-086-1.

Seonjae (2005-05-25). Kim Su-kyeong (김수경) (ed.). 선재 스님의 사찰음식 (in Korean). Design House. ISBN 89-7041-917-9.

Seono (2008-04-21). 선오 스님의 백련으로 만드는 사찰음식 (in Korean). Unjusa (운주사). ISBN 978-89-5746-208-9.

Jeokmun (적문) (2000-06-01). 전통 사찰음식 (in Korean). Uri Publishing (우리출판사). ISBN 89-7561-128-0.

사찰음식. Cultural Institute of Traditional Food. Archived from the original on 2007-08-06. Retrieved 2009-03-26.

Seungsook Moon. "Buddhist Temple Food in South Korea". Winter. 2008. Korea Journal. Archived from the original on 2011-06-14. Retrieved 2009-05-09. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)

External links

(in Korean) Cultural Research Center for Korea Traditional Temple Cuisine

(in Korean) Buddhist temple cuisine at buddhaclub.co.kr

(in Korean) 깊고 맑고 순한 맛 '사찰음식' at Munhwa Ilbo

# North Korean cuisine


North Korean cuisine is the traditional culinary practices and dishes of North Korea. Its foundations are laid by the agricultural and nomadic traditions in southern Manchuria and the Korean Peninsula. Some dishes are shared by the two Koreas; however, availability and quality of Northern cuisine is much more significantly affected by sociopolitical class divides.

Historically, Korean cuisine has evolved through centuries of social and political change. Originating in ancient agricultural and nomadic traditions in southern Manchuria and the Korean Peninsula, it has gone through a complex interaction of the natural environment and different cultural trends. Rice dishes and kimchi are staple Korean foods. In a traditional meal, they accompany both side dishes (panch'an) and main courses like chuk (porridge), pulgogi (grilled meat) or myŏn (noodles). Soju liquor is the best-known traditional Korean spirit.

North Korean cuisine

Some North Korean dishes and foods are also prepared in South Korea, and many dishes that originated in North Korea were brought to South Korea by migrating families after the Korean War. Many of these imported dishes became staples in the South Korean diet.

The most popular dish that originates in North Korea is called naengmyeon (냉면) in South Korea and raengmyŏn (랭면) in North Korea.[citation needed] The most popular type of naengmyeon is called P'yŏngyang-raengmyŏn (평양냉면) .[citation needed] It is usually served in a big and deep bowl with beef, pheasant, or tongch'imi broth. It is usually served with cold hand-pulled buckwheat noodles in the cold broth, topped with pickled radish, eggs etc.[citation needed] It is usually sided with vinegar and a diluted mustard seed condiment/oil. A different yet popular version of raengmyŏn originates from Hamhung, the hoe raengmyŏn (회 랭면). Hoe raengmyŏn is pibim raengmyŏn with additional marinated raw fish (hoe), usually skate. It is eaten with koch'ujang and other ingredients mixed. Vinegar, sugar, and sometimes sesame oil is added according to taste. The noodles of Hamhŭng raengmyŏn are typically made from potato or sweet potato starch, causing them to be chewier.[citation needed]

The flavors of some North Korean dishes differ from South Korean versions, with some being less spicy and more varied in composition than South Korean preparations. North Korean dishes have been described as having a specific tanginess that is created from the interplay of spicy, sour and sweet flavors.

Some restaurants, particularly in Pyongyang, have expensive pricing relative to average worker wages in North Korea. North Korean citizens typically cannot afford such restaurants. Due to their pricing, upscale restaurants are typically available only to well-paid leaders of the North Korean government, tourists visiting the country, and the emerging affluent middle class of tonju (돈주) in the country. Tonju means "masters of money", and the tonju typically hold positions in the government, positions operating state-owned businesses outside of the country, and positions involving bringing investments and the importation of products into the country.

Some street foods exist in North Korea, such as in Pyongyang, where vendors operate food stalls. The first pizzeria in North Korea opened in 2009. Alcoholic beverages are produced and consumed in North Korea, and the country's legal drinking age is 18.

North Korean dishes and foods

Barley

Beef rib soup, a food normally eaten by high-ranking people; due to cows being crucial to farming by commoners.

Bellflower

Ch'amgŏnggeal – also known as sea urchin or uni (Japanese: ウニ).

Chapch'ae

Chicken

Chinese cabbage stew

Chokbal – consists of pig's trotters cooked with soy sauce and various spices. Additional ingredients can include onion, leeks, garlic, cinnamon and black pepper.

Cookies

Corn – it is not uncommon for North Koreans to grind corn, often including the corn cobs and husks to extend the mixture

Edible mushrooms – such as wild pine mushrooms

Herbs and greens – used as an ingredient and in salads

Hot pot

Kajami shik'ae – a fermented and salted food prepared in North Korea using flounder and additional ingredients such as quinoa, garlic, ginger and chili flakes.

Kimbap

Kimchi – very common in North Korea, it is consumed as both a condiment and as a side dish, and often accompanies every meal. Kimchi is relied upon by North Koreans during the winter months when fresh vegetables are unavailable. Kkaktuki – diced radish kimchi

Kkaktuki – diced radish kimchi

Kogi bap – a rice dish with artificial meat, it is a popular North Korean street food Injo kogi – sausages prepared using soybeans and other ingredients. Injo kogi bap – cooked rice wrapped in a skin of leftover soybean paste.

Injo kogi – sausages prepared using soybeans and other ingredients.

Injo kogi bap – cooked rice wrapped in a skin of leftover soybean paste.

Korean chestnut

Mandu – various dumplings, mandu styles vary in different regions of North Korea P'yŏnsu – square-shaped mandu popular in Kaesong

P'yŏnsu – square-shaped mandu popular in Kaesong

Meats – Pork is the most commonly consumed meat, along with rabbit, goat, beef, and occasionally dog

Millet

Miyŏk-kuk – a nutritious vegetable soup prepared with seaweed

Namp'o hwibaryu chogaegui (petrol clam barbecue) – a type of North Korean street food popular in the city of Nampo. Clams are doused with petrol and set on fire for about five to ten minutes.

Noodles and noodle dishes – in North Korean culture, long noodles represent a long life or a long marriage, and long noodles are served to people at weddings. Beef noodle soup Corn noodles Raengmyŏn – referred to as "naengmyeon" in South Korea, it is a traditional Korean cold noodle dish that is prepared using buckwheat noodles in North Korea. Ramyŏn – referred to as "curly noodles" or kkoburang-kuksu (꼬부랑국수) in North Korea. Shin Ramyun is a brand of instant noodles produced in South Korea that is nicknamed "money ramen" in North Korea, due to its relatively expensive pricing in North Korea at around 800 won per unit. In 2009, boxes of Shin Ramyun that contain twenty packages of ramen per box cost around 30,000 North Korean won, which in North Korea is expensive, and therefore not available to most North Korean citizens at this price. Rice noodles

Beef noodle soup

Corn noodles

Raengmyŏn – referred to as "naengmyeon" in South Korea, it is a traditional Korean cold noodle dish that is prepared using buckwheat noodles in North Korea.

Ramyŏn – referred to as "curly noodles" or kkoburang-kuksu (꼬부랑국수) in North Korea. Shin Ramyun is a brand of instant noodles produced in South Korea that is nicknamed "money ramen" in North Korea, due to its relatively expensive pricing in North Korea at around 800 won per unit. In 2009, boxes of Shin Ramyun that contain twenty packages of ramen per box cost around 30,000 North Korean won, which in North Korea is expensive, and therefore not available to most North Korean citizens at this price.

Rice noodles

P'ajŏn

Panch'an – side dishes that accompany full meals, panch'an dishes are typically spicy, salty or tangy, and many are fermented, which adds flavor. Restaurants in North Korea typically charge for these accompaniments. Pansangi – an arrangement of different foods and side dishes such as rice, broth, fermented vegetables and sometimes meat. It is a popular method of food preparation in Kaesong.

Pansangi – an arrangement of different foods and side dishes such as rice, broth, fermented vegetables and sometimes meat. It is a popular method of food preparation in Kaesong.

Pheasant

Pibimpap – white rice with vegetables and other ingredients Tolsot pibimpap – hot stone pot pibimpap

Tolsot pibimpap – hot stone pot pibimpap

Pickled cucumber

Pindae-ttŏk – a fried green bean pancake prepared using mung beans, green onion and kimchi. Pindae-ttŏk first appears under the name binjatteok in the Ŭmsik timibang, a cooking encyclopedia written in the 1670s by Chang Kyehyang, the wife of a public officer.

Porridge – a staple food in North Korea

Potatoes and potato dishes. See also: potato production in North Korea.

Pulgogi – marinated and grilled beef

Quail eggs and quail egg jelly

Rice – short-grain rice is a staple food in North Korea.

Rice cakes

Seafood – seafood dishes and raw seafood are a part of the cuisine, and seafood is a staple food in North Korea Alaska pollock Clams Cod Kimbap sushi Gray mullet fish soup Octopus Salmon and raw salmon

Alaska pollock

Kimbap sushi

Gray mullet fish soup

Octopus

Salmon and raw salmon

Seaweed

Shinsŏllo

Snack foods – examples of snack foods produced within North Korea include kangjŏng, cookies, puffy snacks and cotton candy pieces.

Sundae – traditional Korean sausages that are a popular street food

Sungŏ-kuk

Tangogikuk – traditional soup with dog meat as a primary ingredient

Tofu – a staple food in North Korea Tofu bap – a tofu and rice dish that is a common street food in North Korea.

Tofu bap – a tofu and rice dish that is a common street food in North Korea.

Tot'ori-muk – acorn jelly

Ttŏk – sticky rice cakes, sometimes with fillings

Turkey

Yakpap – a traditional sweet dish prepared using steamed glutinous rice, chestnuts, dates, honey and other ingredients

North Korean dishes and foods

Tangogikuk

Tolsot pibimpap

Unseasoned tot'orimuk

Mapo tofu originated in China, and is consumed in North Korea

Ttŏk in Pyongyang, North Korea

Yakpap

Some typical foods in North Korea

Street food vendors in Pyongyang, North Korea

Dried pollock at the Rakwon Paradise Microbrewery. Dried pollock is a typical bar snack in some areas of North Korea.

Lunch at a restaurant in Pyongyang

Lunch at a restaurant in Kaesong

North Korean foods

Foods at a restaurant in Pyongyang

Covered dishes at Tongil restaurant in Kaesong

Dishes at Tongil restaurant in Kaesong

A North Korean propaganda poster stating, "Breed more rabbits and let our soldiers enjoy plentiful food!"

Condiments

Some condiments used in North Korea to add flavor to foods are listed below.

Bean paste

Garlic

Ginger

Koch'ujang – prepared as a sauce and as a red pepper paste

Pepper flakes

Sesame oil

Soy sauce

Beverages

Bottled water is imported from China, and is typically consumed by the donju, "the new affluent middle class" in North Korea. "Shindŏk' Saemmul" is a spring water produced in North Korea, but it is exported to countries in Southeast Asia, and is typically not available in the North Korean market.

Coffee Instant coffee – some instant coffee in North Korea is produced within the country

Instant coffee – some instant coffee in North Korea is produced within the country

Ginseng tea – a common beverage in North Korea

Soft drinks – soft drink bottlers exist in North Korea, such as the Wonbong Trading Co. in Pyongyang. Soft drink products produced within North Korea are sometimes labeled as "carbonated sweet water". Sometime in 2017, Air Koryo, North Korea's flagship airline, began offering its own brand of soft drinks on flights to and from Beijing, China. Air Koryo soft drinks are also sold at some North Korean grocery stores. Coca-Cola bottled in China is available in upscale grocery stores in Pyongyang, and Pepsi bottled in China is also available, although it is rare compared to Coca-Cola's availability.

Ryongjin Cocoa – a North Korean own brand cola made and canned in the country

Taech'u-ch'a – a traditional Korean tea prepared with jujube and a pine nut garnish

Coffee beans and an espresso machine at a coffee shop located next to the Pyongyang Hotel in Pyongyang, North Korea

A coffee drink at Helmut Sachers Kaffee in Pyongyang, North Korea

Alcoholic beverages are consumed in North Korea, and drinking is a part of the culture of North Korea. North Korea's legal drinking age is 18, but minors are sometimes allowed to consume alcoholic beverages, and some shop keepers readily sell them alcoholic drinks. Some North Koreans brew and distill alcoholic beverages at home, despite such home alcohol production being forbidden in North Korea, and some sell these beverages to markets, although this is also illegal. Home brewed liquor is made using ingredients such as potatoes and corn. Some North Korean consumers purchase alcoholic beverages directly from alcohol-producing factories in the country, using cash. In recent times, imported Chinese liquor has been allowed to be sold in markets, and a well-known Chinese liquor purveyed in North Korea is Kaoliang Liquor, which has a 46–50% alcohol content.

North Korea has some bars and other drinking establishments, and in recent times, beer halls have become popular in Pyongyang.

Beer is produced in North Korea, and craft beer production has increased in recent times. The major breweries in the country are Taedonggang Brewing Company, Paradise Microbrewery and the Yanggakdo Hotel Microbrewery. In August 2016, the Taedonggang Brewing Company held the country's first beer festival, which included several Taedonggang varieties and other local beers. Local beers at the festival included rice beer and dark beers. Beer brands produced in North Korea Pohak Ponghak Pyongyang Rakwon ("Paradise") Ryongsong Samgak ("Delta") Taedonggang – brewed by the state-owned Taedonggang Brewing Company based in Pyongyang In 2017, Taedonggang was the most popular beer in North Korea.

Beer brands produced in North Korea Pohak Ponghak Pyongyang Rakwon ("Paradise") Ryongsong Samgak ("Delta") Taedonggang – brewed by the state-owned Taedonggang Brewing Company based in Pyongyang In 2017, Taedonggang was the most popular beer in North Korea.

Ponghak

Pyongyang

Rakwon ("Paradise")

Ryongsong

Samgak ("Delta")

Taedonggang – brewed by the state-owned Taedonggang Brewing Company based in Pyongyang In 2017, Taedonggang was the most popular beer in North Korea.

Makkŏlli – a specialty rice wine with a milky appearance, it is common in the countryside of North Korea Makgeolli is produced using the same process used for the production of soju, and typically has a lower alcohol content compared to soju. It is considered by some to be inferior compared to soju.

Rice liquor – rice-based liquor is consumed by more North Koreans compared to beer.

Rice wine – glutinous rice wine is a specialty alcoholic beverage in North Korea

Soju – referred to as nongtaegi in North Korea, soju is a clear specialty spirit prepared from sweet potato or barley in North Korea. It is similar to sake. In North Korea, soju's alcohol content ranges from 18 to 25 percent.

Whisky – in 2019 North Korea created its first batch of homemade whisky. Samilpo Whisky has been designed to resemble Johnnie Walker to aid brand recognition for North Koreans

North Korean alcoholic beverages

The karaoke room bar in the Masikryong Hotel, located at the Masikryong Ski Resort in North Korea

Street food vendors selling draft beer at the 10th Pyongyang Autumn International Trade Fair

Craft beer at the Taedonggang Microbrewery No. 3 in Pyongyang, North Korea

An example of makkŏlli

See also

North Korea portal

South Korea portal

Food portal

Korean cuisine Korean regional cuisine Pyongyang § Cuisine

Korean regional cuisine Pyongyang § Cuisine

Pyongyang § Cuisine

List of Korean dishes

List of Korean desserts

List of Korean drinks

North Korean famine

^ "In North Korea it is only the high-ranking government officials and military officers who can afford to give and receive boxes of Shin Ramyun as a present," – stated to Radio Free Asia by a Seoul-based North Korean defector.

References

^ Korean Cuisine (한국요리 韓國料理) (in Korean). Naver / Doosan Encyclopedia. Retrieved July 15, 2014.

^ "Food". Korean Culture and Information Service. Retrieved July 15, 2014.

^ a b c d e f g Gentile, Dan (February 28, 2014). "Korean food: The 12 essential dishes you need to know from the North and the South". Thrillist. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ Lankov, Andrei (June 11, 2014). "Why Pyongyang's restaurant scene is thriving". The Guardian. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o Dixon, Laura (September 15, 2010). "Common Food in North Korea". USA Today. Archived from the original on December 30, 2017. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m Demick, Barbara (October 8, 2011). "The unpalatable appetites of Kim Jong-il". The Telegraph. Archived from the original on January 12, 2022. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ a b Killalea, Debra (May 17, 2016). "Pyonghattan: Life inside North Korea's brat pack". News.com.au. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ a b Fullerton, Jamie (March 29, 2017). "Munchies in North Korea: A Visit to Pyongyang's Newest Pizza Joint". Vice. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ a b c Song Ah, Seol (September 30, 2014). "Bottled Water Gaining Popularity in Markets". Daily NK. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ Song Min, Choi (December 9, 2015). "North Korea's nouveau riche spend like there's no tomorrow". Daily NK. Retrieved May 20, 2017.

^ Pearson, James; Park, Ju-min (June 4, 2015). "Pyongyang Bling - The rise of North Korea's consumer comrades". Reuters UK. Archived from the original on December 23, 2015. Retrieved May 20, 2017.

^ Fifield, Anna (May 14, 2016). "North Korea's one-percenters savor life in 'Pyonghattan'". Washington Post. Retrieved May 20, 2017.

^ "Bread and circuses". The Economist. August 6, 2015. Retrieved May 20, 2017.

^ Choe, Sang-Hun (April 30, 2017). "As Economy Grows, North Korea's Grip on Society Is Tested". The New York Times. Retrieved May 20, 2017.

^ Jeffries, I. (2013). North Korea: A Guide to Economic and Political Developments. Guides to Economic and Political Developments in Asia. Taylor & Francis. p. 408. ISBN 978-1-134-29033-8. Retrieved May 18, 2017.

^ a b c d e Kim, Yoo-sung (June 9, 2015). "Ask a North Korean: what's the street food speciality?". The Guardian. Retrieved May 18, 2017.

^ a b c d Kaiman, Jonathan (May 4, 2017). "You've got the munchies and you're in North Korea. Don't worry - we're here to help". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ "Five interesting facts about North Korean leader Kim Jong-un". The Jakarta Post. February 18, 2017. Retrieved May 20, 2017.

^ a b c d e f g h Lee, Je Son (December 14, 2015). "Ask a North Korean: do you drink alcohol?". The Guardian. Retrieved May 20, 2017.

^ a b c d e Ungerleider, Neal (January 3, 2011). "Karaoke! Espionage! Haute Cuisine!: Adventures in the North Korean Government's Restaurant Chain". Fast Company. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ a b c d e f g h 장, 밥을 주식으로 하고 국과. 조선료리. 조선료리 (in Korean). Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o "North Korea Food and Drink". World Travel Guide.

^ North Korea Handbook. M. E. Sharpe Incorporated. 2002. p. 364. ISBN 978-0-7656-3523-5. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ a b c d e f Hassig, R.; Oh, K. (2015). The Hidden People of North Korea: Everyday Life in the Hermit Kingdom. Rowman & Littlefield Publishers. p. 24. ISBN 978-1-4422-3719-3. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ a b c d e f g h i j Hu, Elise (September 5, 2016). "Would You Like A Side Of Propaganda? Lunch At A North Korean Restaurant". NPR. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ a b Williams, Martyn (July 22, 2014). "North Korea launches cooking website 'for housewives'". The Guardian. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ a b c d e f g h Fullerton, Jamie (March 29, 2017). "A Guide to North Korean Food from a Man Who's Been Eating It for 14 Years". Vice. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ a b c d e Kaiman, Jonathan (April 28, 2017). "We went to North Korea. You asked hundreds of questions. Here's what we found". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ "Nampo Petrol Clams". TasteAtlas. Retrieved June 16, 2024.

^ a b Le, Kyle (March 21, 2016). "My Surreal Experience Eating In A North Korean Restaurant". The Huffington Post. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ a b c "Shin Ramyun, Ramen of Choice in North Korea". Daily NK. June 3, 2009. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ Jenkins, C.R.; Frederick, J. (2009). The Reluctant Communist: My Desertion, Court-Martial, and Forty-Year Imprisonment in North Korea. University of California Press. p. 129. ISBN 978-0-520-25999-7. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ "Noodles Hot in North Korea". Radio Free Asia. September 22, 2009.

^ Krishnamoorthy, Nandini (February 10, 2017). "North Korea marks Kim Jong-il's birthday in style with pheasant meatball soup and cocktails". International Business Times UK. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ Jacobsen, C.; Nielsen, N.S.; Horn, A.F.; Sørensen, A.D.M. (2013). Food Enrichment with Omega-3 Fatty Acids. Woodhead Publishing Series in Food Science, Technology and Nutrition. Elsevier Science. p. 65. ISBN 978-0-85709-886-3. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ Faratin, Pejman (February 25, 2014). "Dog meat or "Dan go gi" in North Korean expression, is placed on a table at a famous restaurant in Pyongyang". Metro. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ Winter, Stuart (August 16, 2016). "Now Kim Jong-un wants North Koreans to eat DOG for 'stamina food'". Daily Express. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ Gander, Kashmira (January 11, 2017). "North Korean Cuisine: A Guide to the Food and Drink of the Hermit Kingdom". The Independent. Archived from the original on June 21, 2022. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ Makinen, Julie (May 4, 2016). "A North Korean farm may not be what it appears". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ "Coffee shops are latest luxury in North Korean capital". News.com.au. April 6, 2016. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ a b Wong, Sue-Lin; Pearson, James (May 11, 2017). "Here's what it's like inside a North Korean grocery store". Business Insider. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ "Meet the North Korea Apologist Who Opened a Cafe to Spread the 'Truth' About North Korea". Vice. October 22, 2016. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ a b c Talmadge, Eric (April 20, 2017). "Coca-Cola bubbling up in North Korea - and it's (usually not) the Real Thing". Toronto Star. Retrieved May 18, 2017.

^ Wong, Sue-Lin; Pearson, James (May 8, 2017). "Made in North Korea: As tougher sanctions loom, more local goods in stores". Reuters. Retrieved May 18, 2017.

^ 헤럴드경제 (February 18, 2011). "Korean teas, not just green". The Korea Herald. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ Kim, M. (2010). Escaping North Korea: Defiance and Hope in the World's Most Repressive Country. Rowman & Littlefield Publishers. p. 42. ISBN 978-0-7425-5733-8. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ Fullerton, Jamie (March 29, 2017). "Munchies in North Korea: Sinking Pints in Pyongyang's Beer Bars". Vice. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ Hunwick, Robert Foyle (September 4, 2013). "Getting Drunk in North Korea". The Atlantic. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ Volodzko, David (August 11, 2016). "The Rise of South Korea's Craft Brewing Scene". Vice. Retrieved May 17, 2017.

^ Steadman, Ian (May 12, 2017). "'Kim Jong-Ale': North Korea's surprising microbrewery culture explored". Wired UK. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ a b Ji, Dagyum (August 16, 2016). "Plastered in Pyongyang: North Korea launches its first beer festival". The Guardian. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ Evans, Stephen (September 12, 2016). "Sneaking a taste of North Korea's finest beer". BBC News. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ Herskovitz, Jon (March 10, 2008). "Brewing beer, Communist style, in North Korea". The New York Times. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

^ "North Korea launches its own whisky". BBC News. May 27, 2019. Retrieved June 18, 2020.

Further reading

Winn, Patrick (May 6, 2016). "What's behind the restaurants North Korea runs around the world? Kitsch — and perhaps recordings". Public Radio International. Retrieved May 20, 2017.

External links

"Table the Politics and Bite Into North Korean Cuisine at 'Pyongyang Okryu'". Khaosod English. December 11, 2015.

Media related to Cuisine of North Korea at Wikimedia Commons

Media related to Meals in North Korea at Wikimedia Commons

Media related to Beverages in North Korea at Wikimedia Commons

Media related to Beers of North Korea at Wikimedia Commons

Media related to Restaurants in North Korea at Wikimedia Commons

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

Angolan

Central African Republic

Chadian

Ethiopian and Eritrean

Gabonese

Libyan

Moroccan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Togolese

Tunisian

São Tomé and Príncipe

Seychelles

Western Saharan

Anguillian

Jamaican

Mexican

United States Hawaiian Italian-American Jewish-American New Orleans Regional dishes Regional beverages Southern United States

Hawaiian

Italian-American

Jewish-American

New Orleans

Regional dishes

Regional beverages

Southern United States

Argentine

Brazilian

Colombian

Ecuadorian

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Venezuelan

Azerbaijani

Bangladeshi

Burmese

Caucasian

Chinese Beijing Sichuan Tibetan

Beijing

Sichuan

Tibetan

Filipino

Indian

Iranian

Indonesian

Israeli

Japanese

Jordan

Korean North Korean

North Korean

Malaysian

Maldivian

Nepalese

Palestinian

Peranakan

Russian

Singaporean

Turkish

Vietnamese

Azerbaijani

Caucasian

English

French

German

Hungarian Typical Hungarian dishes

Typical Hungarian dishes

Italian Sicilian

Sicilian

Liechtensteiner

Maltese

Norwegian

Polish

Portuguese

Romanian

Russian

Scottish

Spanish

Turkish

Ukrainian Crimean Tatar

Crimean Tatar

Australian

New Zealand

Jewish

National dishes

American

British

Indian

Pakistani

American

Armenian

British Cornish

Cornish

English

French

German

Italian

Polish

Spanish

Syrian

Filipino

French fry accompaniments

Indian

Indonesian

Japanese

Pakistani

American

Argentine

Bangladeshi

Brazilian

British

Chinese

Filipino

French

German

Indian

Indonesian

Italian

Japanese

Korean Tteok

Pakistani

Polish

Romanian

Russian

Spanish

Sri Lankan

Taiwanese

Turkish

Chinese

French

German

Indonesian

Italian

Japanese

Pakistani

Spanish

Snack foods by country Indian Indonesian Japanese

Indian

Indonesian

Japanese

American sandwiches

Foods with religious symbolism

Indonesian noodles

Pakistani meat

Pakistani rice

Pakistani vegetable

Puddings (savoury)

Vietnamese noodles

Vietnamese specialities

Baked goods Twice-baked

Twice-baked

Casseroles

Deep fried

Smoked

Steamed

Fermented Soy products

Soy products

Food pastes

Garnishes

Gravies

Instant

Pickled Pickled fruits

Pickled fruits

Rolled

Sauces Dessert sauces Fish sauces Hot sauces Instant sauces

Dessert sauces

Fish sauces

Hot sauces

Instant sauces

Spreads

Stuffed dishes

Almond

Breads bread dishes Buns Flatbreads Quick breads Rolls Sourdough breads Sweet breads

bread dishes

Flatbreads

Quick breads

Sourdough breads

Sweet breads

Buckwheat

Crackers

Dumplings

Fried dough

Legume Chickpea Peanut

Chickpea

Peanut

Noodles Noodle dishes Fried noodle dishes Ramen

Noodle dishes

Fried noodle dishes

Pancakes

Pasta Pasta dishes

Pasta dishes

Rice Fried rice Rice cakes Rice pudding

Fried rice

Rice cakes

Rice pudding

Rice and beans

Sesame seed

Butter dishes

Cheese dishes Fondues

Fondues

Cheeses Brined

Brined

Yogurt-based

Avocado

Banana

Broccoli

Cabbage

Carrot

Cassava

Cherry

Eggplant

Garlic

Potato French fry

French fry

Salads Arab Thai

Soy-based

Squash and pumpkin

Strawberry

Sweet potato

Tomato

Fish head

Fish stews

Fried fish

Herring

Raw fish

Salmon

Shrimp

Sushi and sashimi

Barbecue

Beef Shredded beef Steak Veal

Shredded beef

Chicken

Egg Scrambled eggs

Scrambled eggs

Hamburgers

Hot dogs

Kebabs

Meatball

Mixed grill

Pork Bacon Ham dishes Hams

Ham dishes

Sausages Sausage dishes

Sausage dishes

Cheese

Fish and seafood

Vegetable

Candies

Chocolate bars

Chocolate-covered

Cookies Sandwich cookie Shortbread

Sandwich cookie

Shortbread

Desserts Custard

Custard

Doughnuts

Pastries Choux pastry Poppy seed

Choux pastry

Poppy seed

Pies, tarts and flans

Puddings

Ancient

Bacon substitutes

Brand name snacks

Breakfast Cereals Drinks

Cereals

Drinks

Brunch

Christmas

Chutneys

Coconut

Coconut milk

Coffee

Comfort

Hangover remedies

Hors d'oeuvre Tapas

Made from maple

Mushroom

Pastries

Pies, tarts and flans

Porridges

Relishes

Sandwiches

Spit-roasted

Street

Syrups

Tortilla-based

Traditional

Food portal

Category: Lists of foods

# South Korean cuisine


Bap Bibimbap Bokkeum-bap Gukbap

Bibimbap

Bokkeum-bap

Gukbap

Juk Mieum

Guksu Naengmyeon

Naengmyeon

Jangajji

Jeotgal

Kimchi Baek-kimchi Dongchimi Kkakdugi Nabak-kimchi

Baek-kimchi

Dongchimi

Kkakdugi

Nabak-kimchi

Soups and stews

Jeongol

Jijimi

Jjigae

Banchan

Bokkeum

Buchimgae Jeon

Jokpyeon

Pyeonyuk

Gwapyeon

Jeonggwa

Kkultarae

Suksilgwa

Yakbap

Yeotgangjeong

Yugwa Gangjeong Hangwa

Gangjeong

Hangwa

Yumilgwa Mandugwa Taraegwa Yakgwa

Mandugwa

Taraegwa

Yakgwa

Baekseolgi

Bupyeon

Gyeongdan

Injeolmi

Jeolpyeon

Jeungpyeon

Mujigae-tteok

Siru-tteok

Songpyeon

Hwachae

Sikhye

Sul (alcoholic drinks)

Sujeonggwa

Doenjang

Ganjang Gukganjang Eoganjang

Gukganjang

Eoganjang

Gochujang

Cheong

Mustard sauce

Oil Perilla oil Sesame oil

Perilla oil

Sesame oil

Ssamjang

Vinegar Persimmon vinegar Rice vinegar

Persimmon vinegar

Rice vinegar

Dolsot

Ttukbaegi

Gamasot

Kimchi Field Museum

Kimchi refrigerator

List of Korean dishes

North Korean cuisine

Korean regional cuisine

Korean Chinese cuisine

Korean royal court cuisine

Korean barbecue

South Korea is a country in East Asia constituting the southern part of the Korean Peninsula. It is bordered to the north by North Korea, and the two countries are separated by the Korean Demilitarized Zone. Some dishes are shared by the two Koreas.

Historically, Korean cuisine has evolved through centuries of social and political change. Originating from ancient agricultural and nomadic traditions in southern Manchuria and the Korean Peninsula, it has gone through a complex interaction of the natural environment and different cultural trends. Rice dishes and kimchi are staple Korean foods. In a traditional meal, they accompany both side dishes (banchan) and main courses like juk, bulgogi or noodles. Soju liquor is the best-known traditional Korean spirit.

Beverages

Alcoholic beverages

Alcoholic beverages are consumed in South Korea, and drinking is a part of the culture of South Korea.

Street food

Street food in South Korea has traditionally been seen as a part of popular culture in South Korea. Historically, street food mainly included foods such as eomuk, bungeo-ppang and tteok-bokki. Street food has been sold through many types of retail outlets, with new ones being developed over time. Recently, street food has seen a popular resurgence in South Korea, such as at the Night Market at Hangang Park, which is called "Bamdokkaebi Night Market".

Delivery culture

Delivery culture in South Korea started in the Joseon era. It has since evolved into one of the most sophisticated and widely used services in the country, spanning from the 18th century to the present. Nowadays, because of a fast-paced lifestyle and the role of technology in everyday life, people use delivery services to deliver anything from food, documents, presents, etc. at a cheap price. Although delivery is quite common in other parts of the world, Korean delivery is unique in a way because of the use of scooters and motorcycles to quickly transport food and services.

See also

List of oldest restaurants in South Korea

References

^ Korean Cuisine (한국요리 韓國料理) (in Korean). Naver / Doosan Encyclopedia. Retrieved 15 July 2014.

^ "Food". Korean Culture and Information Service. Retrieved 15 July 2014.

^ 서울밤도깨비야시장 [Seoul Bamdokkaebi Night Market]. 서울밤도깨비야시장. Retrieved 2017-06-18.

^ Jeon, So-young. "Trends & Traditions". Korean Culture and Information Service (in Korean). Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism. Retrieved 5 March 2021.

External links

Media related to Cuisine of South Korea at Wikimedia Commons

North Korea

South Korea

Military history

Monarchs

Timeline

Gojoseon Dangun Joseon / Gija Joseon / Wiman Joseon / Jin (Korean state)

Dangun Joseon / Gija Joseon / Wiman Joseon / Jin (Korean state)

Proto–Three Kingdoms of Korea Buyeo / Okjeo / Dongye / Samhan / Four Commanderies of Han

Buyeo / Okjeo / Dongye / Samhan / Four Commanderies of Han

Three Kingdoms of Korea Goguryeo / Baekje / Silla / Gaya confederacy

Goguryeo / Baekje / Silla / Gaya confederacy

North–South States Period Later Silla / Balhae

Later Silla / Balhae

Later Three Kingdoms Taebong / Later Baekje / Silla

Taebong / Later Baekje / Silla

Goryeo

Joseon

Korean Empire

Korea under Japanese rule Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea

Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea

Division of Korea United States Army Military Government in Korea / Soviet Civil Administration / Korean War

United States Army Military Government in Korea / Soviet Civil Administration / Korean War

History of South Korea / History of North Korea

Borders

Korean Peninsula

Islands

Mountains

Rivers

Provinces

Regions

Floods

Administrative divisions

Cities

Special cities

Geology

Administrative divisions

Environment

Cities

Special cities

World heritage sites

Geology

Overview

Constitution

Foreign relations

Relations with South Korea

Supreme Leader

Heads of state

Cabinet Premier

Premier

Korean People's Army WMD

Elections

Workers' Party of Korea General Secretary Politburo Secretariat

General Secretary

Politburo

Secretariat

State Affairs Commission President of State Affairs

President of State Affairs

Supreme People's Assembly

Human rights

Overview

Constitution

Foreign relations

Relations with North Korea

Government President Prime Minister

President

Prime Minister

Republic of Korea Armed Forces WMD

Elections Presidential Legislative Political parties

Presidential

Legislative

Political parties

National Assembly

Judiciary Constitutional Court Supreme Court High courts

Constitutional Court

Supreme Court High courts

High courts

Human rights

Overview

Agriculture

Automotive industry

Energy

Telecommunications

Tourism

Transport

North Korean won (currency)

North Korean famine

Jangmadang

Mining

Rason Special Economic Zone

Overview

Agriculture

Automotive industry

Chaebol

Economic inequality Squatting

Squatting

Energy

Telecommunications

Tourism

Transport

South Korean won (currency)

Financial services

Fishing industry

Miracle on the Han River

Science and technology

Trade unions

1997 Asian financial crisis

Koreans

Demographics of North Korea

Demographics of South Korea Aging of South Korea Gender inequality in South Korea Low birth rate in South Korea International adoption of South Korean children Life expectancy

Aging of South Korea

Gender inequality in South Korea

Low birth rate in South Korea

International adoption of South Korean children

Life expectancy

Koreatown

Korean language Hangul Hanja

Hangul

Korean name

Cinema North South

100 Cultural Symbols

Cuisine

Globalization in South Korea

Martial arts

Mythology

Philosophy

Religion

Ssireum (wrestling)

Korean sword

Korean tea ceremony

Tattooing in South Korea

Architecture

Calligraphy

Literature

Traditional music

Painting

Poetry

Pottery and porcelain

Theater

Education

Literature

Religion

Smoking

Arirang Festival

Propaganda

Education

Literature

Religion

Smoking

Cultural icons Korean Wave K-pop

Korean Wave

Marriage

Sexuality

Afghanistan

Armenia

Azerbaijan

Bahrain

Bangladesh

Bhutan

Brunei

Burma (Myanmar)

Cambodia

Cyprus

East Timor (Timor-Leste)

Georgia

Indonesia

Israel

Jordan

Kazakhstan

North Korea

South Korea

Kuwait

Kyrgyzstan

Lebanon

Malaysia

Maldives

Mongolia

Pakistan

Philippines

Russia

Saudi Arabia

Singapore

Sri Lanka

Tajikistan

Thailand

Turkey

Turkmenistan

United Arab Emirates

Uzbekistan

Vietnam

Abkhazia

Northern Cyprus

Palestine

South Ossetia

Taiwan

British Indian Ocean Territory

Christmas Island

Cocos (Keeling) Islands

Hong Kong

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

# Mongolian cuisine


Mongolian cuisine predominantly consists of dairy products, meat, and animal fats. The most common rural dish is cooked mutton. In the city, steamed dumplings filled with meat—"buuz"— are popular.

The extreme continental climate of Mongolia and the lowest population density in the world of just 2.2 inhabitants/km2 has influenced the traditional diet. Use of vegetables and spices are limited. Due to geographic proximity and deep historic ties with China and Russia, Mongolian cuisine is also influenced by Chinese and Russian cuisine.

Mongolia is one of few Asian countries where rice is not a main staple food. Instead, Mongolian people prefer to eat meat as their staple food rather than rice.

Wheat, barley, and buckwheat predominate more than rice in modern Mongolia.

History

Details of the historic cuisine of the Mongolian court were recorded by Hu Sihui in the Yinshan zhengyao, known from the 1456 Ming Dynasty edition manuscript, also surviving in fragments from the Yuan dynasty. Presented to Tugh Temür in 1330, at the height of Mongol power and cultural influence, the Yinshan zhengyao is a product of the cultural exchange (notably with the Islamic heartland in Mongol Iran) that enriched the Mongol Empire. Food scholars consider the Yinshan zhengyao evidence for the cultural influence of the Middle East on Mongol food culture, comparable to the Columbian exchange.

Court cuisine

Wang Yuanling gives an eyewitness report of a feast at Kubilai Khan's court where kumiss is served with scallions and onions, horse meat, roast mutton, venison, quail, pheasant, diced chicken (tianji) and bear meat, with red wine and congee. According to Marco Polo the Mongols hunted daily in December, January and February when the court was resident at the capital, with a portion of the lions, stags, bears and wild boars sent to the court of the Khan. The Khan was said to keep trained leopards, eagles, and wolves for hunting, and very fine lions that could hunt wild boars, cattle, stags and bears.

Influences

Nomadic

Little is known of the early Mongol cuisine, other than the assumption that it would be similar to the general pastoral nomadic foodways of the steppe. Mongols supplemented the staples of the pastoral nomadic diet (mostly milk and herd) with hunting and gathering, especially as stores of dry curd and cheese grew scarce in the late winter months. Sheep were the most important product of animal husbandry, providing milk for dairy products (tsagaan idee [mn]), some fermented goods, and meat. Horses could provide milk for kumys, and were valued for their nutritious meat and blood. Less common herd animals were reindeers and sarlag, a type of yak.

Mongols hunted the wild animals of the steppe. The marmot is mentioned in the Yinshan zhengyao. Grain was often limited in supply, mostly traded for or taken as pillage, although some evidence of agricultural activity is known from 12th-century Western Mongolia. The importance of vegetables, fungi and fruits and berries is unknown, but speculated to have been significant. According to the Secret History, Genghis Khan's mother Hoelun was forced to resort to feeding her children from the pastures after the Tatars poisoned her husband Yesugei. The context of this story implies that these types of foods were consumed only out of necessity. The roots and wild fruits mentioned are:

The Yinshan zhengyao features recipes with Central Asian influence, mostly in north China. Some difference continues in the present day and dishes with lamb, fancy breads and fried dumplings are more typical of north Chinese cuisine, while fish, rice, pork and vegetables are more common in the south.[clarification needed]

Muslim

Some recipes in the Yinshan zhengyao are similar to recipes from medieval Arabic cookbooks. Scholars have proposed a possible west-to-east diffusion of the cookbook. Of the extant cookbooks, the Arab texts are the earliest and the similarity of the Yinshan zhengyao along with the timing of its compilation after the Mongol conquests may support a west-to-east diffusion or direct influence upon the Yinshan zhengyao content, but there is no way to rule out the possibility of an independent Chinese origin. Lactic acid fermentation was used to preserve dairy products like the dried yogurt called kashk in Iran and qimaq in the Yinshan zhengyao.

Features

The nomads of Mongolia sustain their lives directly from the products of domesticated animals such as cattle, horses, camels, yaks, sheep, and goats, as well as game. Meat is either cooked, used as an ingredient for soups and dumplings, such as buuz, khuushuur, bansh, manti, or dried for winter (borts). The Mongolian diet includes a large proportion of animal fat which is necessary for the Mongols to withstand the cold winters and their hard work. Winter temperatures are as low as −40 °C (−40 °F) and outdoor work requires sufficient energy reserves. Milk and cream are used to make a variety of beverages, as well as cheese and similar products.

The nomads in the countryside are self-supporting on principle. Travelers will find gers marked as guanz in regular intervals near the roadside, which operate as simple restaurants. In the ger, which is a portable dwelling structure (yurt is a Turkic word for a similar shelter, but the name is ger in Mongolian), Mongolians usually cook in a cast-iron or aluminum pot on a small stove, using wood or dry animal dung fuel (argal).

Common foods

The most common rural dish is cooked mutton, usually without any other ingredients, though potatoes and carrots are common accompaniments in more well-to-do families. To accompany the meat, vegetables and flour products may be used to create side dishes as well. In Ulaanbaatar, one can often see signs advertising buuz, steamed dumplings filled with meat. Other types of dumplings are boiled in water (bansh, manti), or deep-fried in mutton fat (khuushuur). Khuushuur is particularly popular during the Naadam festival, where a particular variety is made that is slightly different from common khuushuur. Other dishes combine the meat with rice or fresh noodles made into various stews, stir-frys (tsuivan, budaatai khuurga), or noodle soups (guriltai shöl). Sülen is a type of hot pot dish. Gambir (Mongolian: гамбир, pronounced [ɢæmʲbʲĭɾ]) is a flatbread that is commonly made from flour and ghee, served on its own or with sugar.

Khorkhog

Boiled meat and innards; the most common meal in a herder's household

Two kinds of dumplings: buuz (top left) and khuushuur (lower right)

Another buuz variant

The most unusual cooking method is only used on special occasions. In this case, the meat (often together with vegetables) is cooked with the help of stones, which have been preheated in a fire. This either happens with chunks of mutton in a sealed milk can (khorkhog), or within the abdominal cavity of a deboned goat or marmot (boodog).

Milk is boiled to separate the cream (öröm, clotted cream). The remaining skimmed milk is processed into cheese (byaslag), dried curds (aaruul), yogurt, kefir, and a light milk liquor (shimiin arkhi). The most prominent national beverage is airag, which is fermented mare's milk. A common cereal is barley, which is fried and malted. The resulting flour (arvain guril) is eaten as a porridge in milk fat and sugar or drunk mixed in milky tea. The everyday beverage is salted milk tea (süütei tsai), which may turn into a robust soup by adding rice, meat, or bansh. As a result of the Russian influence during socialism, vodka has also gained some popularity with a number of local brands (usually grain spirits). Boortsog or bawïrsaq is a type of fried dough food found in the cuisines of Central Asia, Idel-Ural, Mongolia and the Middle East. It is shaped into either triangles or sometimes spheres. The dough consists of flour, yeast, milk, eggs, margarine, salt, sugar, and fat.

Süütei tsai, salted milk tea

A glass of airag in front of the plastic barrel used to make it

Leather pouch used for fermenting airag the traditional way

Various types of Mongolian sour milk sweets

Aaruul in a serving bowl

Boortsog, a type of fried dough

Horse meat is eaten in Mongolia and can be found in most grocery stores.

Mongolian sweets include boortsog, a type of biscuit or cookie eaten on special occasions.

Vodka is the most popular alcoholic beverage; Chinggis vodka (named for Genghis Khan) is the most popular brand, making up 30% of the distilled spirits market.

Custom of hospitality

The Mongol people had rules of hospitality and social support similar to the Germanic Gastfreundschaft (where it was customary to extend hospitality even to enemies) and Arab Bedouin hospitality. An account of this survives in the Secret History of the Mongols:

After that, when Dobun-mergen one day went to hunt on Toqocaq Rise, he encountered Uriangqadai people in the forest. They had killed a three year old deer and were cooking its ribs and intestines. When Dobun-mergen spoke he said: "Please give me (some meat) as the share of meat due another (nökör sirolqa ke'ejü'ü)." Taking [only] half a breast side of the meat with the lungs, and the hide, they gave all (the rest of the) three year old deer's meat to Dobun-mergen.

References

^ a b c Marshall Cavendish Corporation, 2007, p. 268

^ Buell, 1

^ Buell, 15–25

^ Buell, 27

^ Buell, 86k

^ Sanders, 117

^ Buell, 29–35

^ Buell, 37

^ Buell, 78

^ a b c d Marshall Cavendish Corporation, 2007, p. 269

^ "CHINGGIS Vodka". www.behindcity.com. Archived from the original on 5 April 2012. Retrieved 19 March 2018.

Sanders, Alan (2003-04-09). Historical Dictionary of Mongolia. Bloomsbury Publishing PLC. ISBN 978-0-8108-6601-0

Marshall Cavendish Corporation (2007) World and Its Peoples: Eastern and Southern Asia, Marshall Cavendish, p. 268 -269 ISBN 0-7614-7633-4

Buell, P.D. (2010) A Soup for the Qan: Second Revised and Expanded Edition ISBN 9789004180208

External links

Timeline

Prehistoric Mongolia

Proto-Mongols

Xiongnu

Xianbei

Rouran Khaganate

Eastern Turkic Khaganate

Liao dynasty

Medieval tribes

Mongol Empire

Yuan dynasty

Northern Yuan dynasty

Four Oirat

Dzungar Khanate

Qing rule

1911 Revolution

Bogd Khanate

Chinese occupation

Soviet intervention

1921 Revolution

Mongolian People's Republic World War II

World War II

People's Great Khural

People's Great Khural

1990 Revolution

Modern Mongolia

Borders

Cities Ulaanbaatar Historical cities and towns

Ulaanbaatar

Historical cities and towns

Climate

Environmental issues

Fauna Birds Mammals

Mammals

Gobi Desert

Grassland

Lakes Khövsgöl Uvs

Khövsgöl

Mountains Altai Khangai Khentii

Khangai

Khentii

National parks

Rivers Selenga Orkhon

Selenga

Orkhon

Constitution

State Great Khural (parliament)

President

Prime Minister

Government (cabinet)

Judiciary Supreme Court Constitutional Court

Supreme Court

Constitutional Court

Administrative divisions

Elections

Foreign relations Third neighbor policy

Third neighbor policy

Human rights LGBT

Law enforcement

Military Chief of General Staff

Chief of General Staff

Political parties

Agriculture

Banking

Companies

Stock Exchange

Tögrög (currency)

Telecommunications

Tourism

Transportation

Water supply and sanitation

Demographics

Mongols Khalkha Buryats Oirats Southern Mongols

Khalkha

Buryats

Oirats

Southern Mongols

Education

Health

Language

Prostitution

Public holidays

List of Mongolians

Sex trafficking

Writing systems

Architecture

Biyelgee (dance)

Cinema

Cuisine

Goyol Fashion Festival

Horse culture

Literature

Traditional medicine

Naadam (festival)

Religion

Tsagaan Sar (New Year's Day)

Outline

Category

Afghanistan

Armenia

Azerbaijan

Bahrain

Bangladesh

Bhutan

Brunei

Burma (Myanmar)

Cambodia

Cyprus

East Timor (Timor-Leste)

Georgia

Indonesia

Israel

Jordan

Kazakhstan

North Korea

South Korea

Kuwait

Kyrgyzstan

Lebanon

Malaysia

Maldives

Mongolia

Pakistan

Philippines

Russia

Saudi Arabia

Singapore

Sri Lanka

Tajikistan

Thailand

Turkey

Turkmenistan

United Arab Emirates

Uzbekistan

Vietnam

Abkhazia

Northern Cyprus

Palestine

South Ossetia

Taiwan

British Indian Ocean Territory

Christmas Island

Cocos (Keeling) Islands

Hong Kong

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

United States

Israel

Yale LUX

# Taiwanese cuisine


Taiwanese cuisine (Chinese: 臺灣料理; pinyin: Táiwān liàolǐ; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: Tâi-oân liāu-lí or 臺灣菜; Táiwāncài; Tâi-oân-chhài) is a popular style of food with several variations, including Chinese and that of Taiwanese indigenous peoples, with the earliest cuisines known of being the indigenous ones. With over a hundred years of historical development, southern Fujian cuisine has had the most profound impact on mainstream Taiwanese cuisine but it has also been influenced by Hakka cuisine, the cuisines of the waishengren (people of other provinces), and Japanese cuisine.

Taiwan's cuisine is tied to its history of colonization and modern politics makes the description of Taiwanese cuisine difficult. As Taiwan developed economically fine dining became increasingly popular. Taiwanese cuisine has significant regional variations.

Night markets in Taiwan form a significant part of the food culture. Vegetarian and vegan food are very common. Taiwanese cuisine is popular around the world with some items like bubble tea and Taiwanese fried chicken becoming global phenomena.

History

According to Katy Hui-wen Hung, "Taiwanese food history is as murky as Taiwanese politics". This is because Taiwanese cuisine is intricately tied to patterns of migration and colonization. Local and international Taiwanese cuisine, including its history, is a politically contentious topic. Taiwan's complex and diverse identity makes Taiwanese cuisine difficult to define. Tense political relations between Taiwan and China also complicate the history.

The history of Taiwanese cuisine began with the cuisine of the aboriginal peoples of the islands of Taiwan. In the 16th century Hokkien and Hakka communities immigrated to Taiwan and brought their cuisines with them. Due to this part of its heritage Taiwanese cuisine is often considered as a part of regional Han cuisine. Early European influences came from the Dutch, Spanish, and Portuguese.

Due to the period of Japanese rule, Taiwanese cuisine was also strongly influenced by Japanese washoku and yōshoku.[citation needed] During Japanese rule Japanese dishes and foodways such as bento, sashimi, rice balls, and miso soup were introduced to Taiwanese cuisine.

After WWII, the Kuomintang retreat to Taiwan brought along many Han cuisines outside the province of Fujian or Southeast China. After that, the dishes from China especially Guangdong, Chaoshan, Shanghai, Sichuan and Beijing could be easily found in Taiwan.[citation needed]

According to Taiwanese chef Fu Pei-mei, authentic Chinese culinary traditions were properly preserved in Taiwan. This claim to authenticity, common among Fu's generation, was in part due to the Kuomintang's Chinese nationalist political messaging which extended well beyond cuisine. The authenticity of regional Han cuisine in Taiwan has been challenged. Some sources trace the origin of instant noodles to Taiwan's jisi noodles, in particular a variation deep-fried in pork fat to be later boiled in water before serving introduced by the Qingji Ice Dessert Parlor in 1951. Following the commercialization of instant noodles Taiwanese companies including Uni-President. In 1973 Wei Lih Food Industrial introduced the first packaged instant noodle meant to be consumed "dry" (without soup or with soup on the side).

The Tatung electric steamer was introduced in the 1960s and became a staple of Taiwanese home and restaurant kitchens. The widespread adoption of the food court during the 20th century formalized more traditional hawkers and vendors. Food courts also became an important part of the malls and shopping centers which proliferated across Taiwan.

In 2002, the accession of Taiwan to the World Trade Organization forced Taiwanese farmers to compete with global markets. Many responded by shifting from staple crops to high end and niche produce primarily for local consumption. Agrotourism was also more widely adopted, with visitors to farms often being served and/or taught how to prepare dishes with the products from the farms.

In the early 21st century, ideas about sustainability and local food became more prominent in Taiwanese culinary and agricultural circles. An increased emphasis has been placed on understanding the history of food as well as incorporating indigenous foodways into mainstream Taiwanese cuisine.

Ingredients and culture

Common ingredients of Taiwanese cuisine are pork, seafood, chicken, rice, and soy. Traditionally, rice formed the basis of most Taiwanese diets. Before the Japanese colonial period, most rice grown in Taiwan was long-grained indica rice. The Japanese introduced short-grained japonica rice which quickly changed both the farming and eating patterns of the Taiwanese. Due to Japanese influence, the Taiwanese generally prefer rice that is plump, aromatic, slightly firm, and sweet. Differences between the Taiwanese and Japanese rice preferences are demonstrated by differences in their cuisine with Taiwan's more flavorful and aggressive cooking methods calling for highly aromatic rice while the Japanese prefer a more subtle and pure taste and smell. During the Japanese Colonial period, Taiwanese cuisine was divided. High-end restaurants, or wine houses, served Chinese cuisine such as Peking duck, shark fin with bird's nest soup, and braised turtle to the colonial elite. In the meantime, those without wealth or connections primarily ate rice, porridge, pickled vegetables, and sweet potato leaves. Cooking oil was considered a luxury and was only used for special occasions.

Taiwan's cuisine has also been influenced by its geographic location. Living on a crowded island, the Taiwanese had to look aside from the farmlands for sources of protein. As a result, seafood figures prominently in their cuisine. This seafood encompasses many different things, from large fish such as tuna and grouper, to sardines and even smaller fish such as anchovies. Crustaceans, squid, and cuttlefish are also eaten.[citation needed] Milkfish is the most popular fish in Taiwanese cuisine; it is valued for its versatility as well as its tender meat and economical price.

Beef is less common than other proteins, and some Taiwanese (particularly the elderly generation) still refrain from eating it. This stems from traditional reluctance toward slaughtering precious cattle needed for agriculture, and an emotional attachment and feeling of gratitude and thanks to the animals traditionally used for very hard labor. However, due to influences from the influx of Chinese in the 1900s, the Taiwanese version of beef noodle soup is now one of the most popular dishes in Taiwan. American food aid in the decades following WWII which primarily consisted of wheat, beef, and processed meats like Spam permanently changed the Taiwanese diet with wheat-based noodles, breads, and dumplings taking a more central role in the cuisine. Rice consumption in Taiwan reached a height of 80-90 kilograms per person per year in the 1960s and 1970s before falling as consumers shifted consumption to wheat-based foods. However, the Taiwanese still consume a large quantity of rice, particularly brown rice and exotic varieties like black, purple, and red rice. Recently rice consumption in Taiwan has enjoyed a renaissance with both growers and consumers devoting the level of care and attention to the rice that is given to high-value crops like tea.

Dumplings were a minor part of Taiwanese cuisine until the expansion in wheat consumption following WWII. Dumplings and dumpling like foods (such as xiaolongbao which is actually a small steamed bun because its wrapper contains yeast) are very popular in modern Taiwanese cuisine with most combining Chinese and Taiwanese influences. In Taiwan dumplings are often paired with hot and sour soup.

Because of the island's sub-tropical location, Taiwan has an abundant supply of various fruit, such as papayas, starfruit, melons, and citrus fruit. A wide variety of tropical fruits, imported and native, are also enjoyed in Taiwan. Other agricultural products in general are rice, corn, tea, pork, poultry, beef, fish, and other fruits and vegetables. Fresh ingredients in Taiwan are readily available from markets.

In many of their dishes, the Taiwanese have shown their creativity in their selection of spices. Typical spice mixes in Taiwanese cuisine are five-spice powder and hujiaoyan (literally pepper salt; a mixture of white pepper, salt, MSG, and sugar). Taiwanese cuisine relies on an abundant array of seasonings for flavor: soy sauce, rice wine, sesame oil, fermented black beans, pickled radish, pickled mustard greens, peanuts, chili peppers, cilantro (sometimes called Chinese parsley) and a local variety of basil (九層塔; káu-chàn-tha̍h; 'nine-story pagoda'). Widespread use of sugar is part of the legacy of Taiwan's commercial sugar industry.

Taiwanese black vinegar has more in common with Worcestershire sauce than other black vinegars and is considered an outlier among black vinegars. Its base is sticky rice which is then aged with other ingredients in clay pots. It is used as a condiment and seasoning. Kong Yen is the largest producer of Taiwanese black vinegar. According to Bon Appetit, compared to Chinese black vinegars it is "simpler, fruitier, and cleaner." Taiwanese soy paste is a soy sauce based paste thickened with rice flour and sugar. Taiwanese mayonnaise is made with both egg whites and egg yolks and is sweetened.

An important part of Taiwanese cuisine is xiaochi (小吃), substantial snacks along the lines of Spanish tapas or Levantine meze. The Taiwanese xiaochi has gained much reputation internationally. Many travelers go to Taiwan just for xiǎochī. The most common place to enjoy xiǎochī in Taiwan is in a night market. Each night market also has its famous xiǎochī. Moreover, the Taiwanese xiǎochī has entered more "refined" eating environments. Nowadays, Taiwanese xiǎochī can be found in luxury and high-end restaurants. These restaurants use higher quality ingredients and creative presentations, reinventing dishes whilst keeping the robust flavors. The prices usually jump by twice the price or even higher in the restaurants. The Taiwanese government supports the Taiwanese xiǎochī and has held national xiǎochī events in Taiwan regularly.[citation needed]

Grilling is an important part of Taiwanese cuisine with many Taiwanese grilling at home and street side grills being a ubiquitous feature of night markets. Rechao (traditional Chinese: 熱炒; simplified Chinese: 热炒; lit. 'hot stir-frying') is a style of Taiwanese cuisine that uses a wok to stir-fry food. Rechao establishments create settings for numerous Taiwanese to connect with each other as they dine and converse.

Roadside banquet chefs are ubiquitous in Taiwan; these small (often single-person) catering firms provide on-location cooking for wedding banquets and other celebrations often held on the roadside. During the COVID-19 pandemic these chefs saw a significant downturn in business due to the lack of people hosting large traditional functions, especially those around the Lunar New Year. The banquet industry returned after the pandemic but have faced criticism for a lack of innovation and the repetition of traditional dishes.

Vegetarianism and veganism

Vegetarian restaurants are commonplace in Taiwan with a wide variety of dishes, mainly due to the influence of Buddhism and other syncretistic religions like I-Kuan Tao. These vegetarian restaurants vary in style from all-you-can-eat to pay-by-the-weight and the regular order-from-a-menu. Vegetarian restaurants and foods are often marked with a left-facing swastika.

In the 21st century, Taiwan has seen a rise in non-religious vegetarians, especially among the young. There has also been a rise in veganism with concerns about animal welfare, personal health, environmental sustainability, and climate change driving both trends. Taiwan's traditional vegetarian products companies have also expanded into the booming fake meat market. The traditional culinary use of fake meat in Taiwan has given Taiwanese companies an edge and Taiwan is now a market leader in the fake meat sector. Taiwanese companies do a significant amount of export business, particularly in the European, North American, and Southeast Asian markets. Hung Yang Foods, one of the largest producers of fake meat products, does 80% of their business overseas with their products being stocked in 90% of Australian supermarkets.

In 2010 the Ministry of Education (Taiwan) began encouraging educational institutions to go entirely vegetarian one day a week. By 2018 vegetarianism and veganism were widespread with 12-16% of Taiwan's population reporting that they did not eat meat. In 2023, there were approximately 6,000 vegetarian restaurants in Taiwan.

Regional specialties

Typical dishes

There is a type of outdoor barbecue called khòng-iô [zh]. To barbecue in this manner, one first builds a hollow pyramid up with dirt clods. Next, charcoal or wood is burnt inside until the temperature inside the pyramid is very high (the dirt clods should be glowing red). The ingredients to be cooked, such as taro, yam, or chicken, are placed in cans, and the cans are placed inside the pyramid. Finally, the pyramid is toppled over the food until cooked.

Many non-dessert dishes are usually considered snacks, not entrees; that is, they have a similar status to Cantonese dim sum or Spanish tapas. Such dishes are usually only slightly salted, with many vegetables accompanying the main meat or seafood item.

Taiwanese dishes

Lūn-piánn with vegetables and powdered peanuts as filling

Oyster omelette from Chien-Cheng Circle, Datong District (Taipei).

A bowl of oyster vermicelli

Ba-wan served with sweet and savory sauce

Pork ball and rice vermicelli in soup

A-gei served with sauce

Many flavors of Taiwanese sausages are sold by night market vendors

Pork and shiitake geng over rice from an eatery in Taichung

A Fenchihu Bento box

Desserts

Aiyu jelly – a gelatinous dessert made from the seeds of a creeping fig, Ficus pumila var. awkeotsang. Served on ice.

ō͘-á-peng [zh] (芋仔冰; ō͘-á-peng) – an ice cream made of taro root paste.

Tshuah-ping (also known as Baobing) – a Taiwanese shaved ice dessert very common in China, Taiwan, Malaysia, and Vietnam.

Xue-bing (雪花冰) - also called "xue hua bing," translated to "snow ice," "snowflake ice," or "shaved snow." This is different from baobing/tshuah-ping in that the base mixture for the ice is creamy (milk is generally added, but it can be dairy or plant based), the ice itself often has a flavor dissolved in (milk, taro, chocolate, coffee, etc.), the texture of the shaved snow is very fine, and it melts near-instantaneously, upon contact. The ice for this is typically cylindrical, and the shaved snow comes out of the machine in ruffled ribbons. Some additional common toppings include but are not limited to: sweetened condensed milk, mangoes, sweetened red beans, sweetened mung beans, boba pearls, or taro.

Bubble tea, aka boba milk tea; also known as pearl milk tea - chewy tapioca balls added to milk tea.

Traditional cakes are not always of the same composition depending on the flavor. There is the moon cake which has a thick filling usually made from lotus seed paste or sweetened red bean paste and surrounded by a relatively thin (2–3 mm) crust and may contain yolks from salted duck eggs. It is traditionally eaten during the festival for lunar worship and moon watching. Mooncakes are offered between friends or on family gatherings while celebrating the festival. The Mid-Autumn Festival is one of the four most important Chinese festivals.

Grass jelly (Chinese: 仙草; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: sian-chháu) – (Mesona procumbens) Served hot or cold.

Moachi (麻糍; môa-chî), a soft rice cake like Japanese daifuku mochi. Flavors of the fillings can vary, ranging from all kinds of beans to nuts.

Pineapple cake (Chinese: 王梨酥; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: ông-lâi-so͘)- a square short crust pie filled with pineapple filling. One of Taiwan's best known dessert pastries and souvenir of choice.

Chhau-a-koe – Cakes made with a dough from glutinous rice flour and combine with a ground cooked paste of Gnaphalium affine or Mugwort to give it a unique flavor and green color. The dough is commonly filled with ground meat or sweet bean pastes.

Douhua (豆花) - Soft tofu served with syrup and toppings such as peanuts, adzuki beans, tapioca, and mung beans. Served hot or cold.

Chocolate - Taiwan's cocoa production is centered in Pingtung in Southern Taiwan. As of 2020 approximately 200-300 acres was under cultivation in Pingtung supporting around 30 chocolate making companies. Taiwan is one of the few mature chocolate making countries to also be a cocoa producer.

Night market dishes

Taiwan's best-known snacks are present in the night markets, where street vendors sell a variety of different foods, from finger foods, drinks, sweets, to sit-down dishes. In these markets, one can also find fried and steamed meat-filled buns, oyster-filled omelets, fruit ices, and much more. Aside from snacks, appetizers, entrees, and desserts, night markets also have vendors selling clothes and accessories, and offer all kinds of entertainment and products. Street vendors used to be common across Taiwan but due to increasing regulations and health safety concerns are now primarily found at night markets and food courts. Taiwanese food courts incorporate ideas from traditional night markets as well as importing ideas from the United States and Japan. Food courts have become ubiquitous across Taiwan. Many night market dishes can now be found outside night markets.

In 2014, The Guardian called Taiwan's night markets the "best street food markets in the world". Some, such as Shilin Night Market, have become as popular with tourists as they are with locals, leading to complaints that they have lost a measure of their authentic flavor though commercialization.

Various drinks are also often sold, ranging from bubble tea stands to various juice and tea stands.

Crêpes - Adapted from the original French version, a thin cooked pancake, it has a much crispier texture, rather like a cracker. They were popular in the early 2000s.

Fruit or bean smoothies - milk or ice is blended on the spot with fresh papaya, mango, watermelon, azuki bean, or mung bean.

Fried glutinous rice balls - slightly sweet.

Food of the Taiwanese Aborigines

Taiwan's food and food culture is very much diversified and largely influenced by the exodus of Han people. However, one part of the Taiwanese food culture that remains integral is that of the Taiwanese indigenous people. Though indigenous populations only make up approximately 1.5% of Taiwan's overall population, it is notable that their foods eaten and ways of preparation are distinguishable from the more typical Chinese-influenced cuisine.

The aborigines' diet very much depends on nature. With profuse vegetation and wild animals, the aborigines were natural hunter-gatherers. Essentially, much of what Aborigines ate depended on their environment – that is, whether they lived in coastal or mountainous areas. Tribes like Amis, Atayal, Saisiyat and Bunun hunt what they can, and gather what they cultivate. On the other hand, tribes like the Yamis and the Thao have fish as a predominant source of food. Most foods consisted of millet, taro, sweet potato, wild greens and game like boar and rat. This is in contrast to the main foods eaten by the Han, which consisted of rice and chicken.

Game meats for those living in the mountainous areas include deer, and flying squirrel intestines, a delicacy as regarded by the Bunun people. Another is 'stinky' meat – that is, 'maggoty game' that has begun to rot, which is then barbecued, fried, seasoned with garlic and ginger then served with spicy sauce.

The Amis, apart from meat, had much greens to eat, largely due to the assumption that anything a cow ate, was also edible by humans. The Bununs, who are primarily hunters of wild animals, would dine on stone-grilled pork, boar, deer, and hog roast. The Yami tribe, located off Taitung coast, fed on many types of fish, including the prized 'flying fish' (or Alibangbang). A speciality includes rice, mixed with river fish and wild vegetables, served in large bamboo trunks.

Apart from being a staple-food, millet was always produced as wine. Not just for drinking, millet wine played an important role in being used as offerings during festivals, births and weddings. Millet wines are all made in the homes of the Aborigines. Sticky rice is put into a wooden steamer after being soaked in water. Once cooled, the rice is put into a pot of water, then pulled out and combined with rice yeast. After four or five days of being placed in a large jar, the rice is placed in a sieve or rice bag, whilst the alcoholic liquid drips out and is stored away.

Also important to the Indigenous Taiwanese people's cuisine are the sweet potato and taro, favored for their perennial nature and low maintenance. The cultivation of root vegetables rather than typical seedling plants was notably prominent, with archaeological evidence suggesting as early as fourth millennium BC, from the Dapenkeng site, in Guanyin Mountain, New Taipei City.

Given the versatility of both vegetables, they were usually boiled or steamed, and eaten by itself or as ingredients in soups and stews. Without the need for advanced agricultural technology, taro and sweet potatoes were a prime preference for farming. Canadian missionary George MacKay said of 19th century Taiwan: 'the bulb of the sweet potato is planted in March. In about six weeks the vines are cut into pieces eight inches long, which are planted in drills, and from these vine-cuttings the bulbs grow and are ripe about the end of June. A second crop is planted in a similar way in July and is ripe in November.' The influence of sweet potatoes and taro has been vast. They are still widely present in modern-day Taiwan, be it on the streets, night markets, or in successful food chains like 'Meet Fresh' (or 鮮芋仙).

Due to the absence of contemporary culinary utensils such as the refrigerator, gas stovetops and ovens, the Indigenous resorted to other means to prepare their food. Upon bringing back hunted game meat, the Aborigines would preserve the meat with either millet wine or salt. Another cooking technique involved the heating up of stones by fire, which are then placed inside a vessel with other certain meats and seafood, which are cooked from the heat of the stones. Foods were mostly prepared by steaming, boiling or roasting, in order to infuse flavors together, yet preserve the original flavors. This again is contrasted with the Han, who adopted skills like stir-frying and stewing. Meat was also put on a bamboo spit and cooked over the fire.

Taiwanese indigenous cuisine incorporates certain flavors that are distinct from Han Chinese-influenced cuisine. Mountain peppercorns (shan hujiao in Chinese or magao, derived from the Atayal term maqaw) are one of these distinctive ingredients.

A cookbook published in 2000 by the CIP and National Kaohsiung University of Hospitality and Tourism, listed some foods of the main Taiwanese Aboriginal tribes, showing the Aborigines' adherence and passion for natural foods.

Amis Nation: Alivongvong (meat and sticky rice dumpling packed in leaves) (阿里鳳鳳); Stir-fried wild vegetables

Atayal Nation: Grilled meat on stone (石板烤肉); Langying (steamed sticky rice cake) (朗應)

Bunun Nation: Bunun millet cake (布農粿); Millet rice (小米飯)

Paiwan Nation: Cinavu (millet and pork meat-ball) (小米吉拿富); Jinbole (Sorghum and pork dumpling packed in a banana leaf) (金伯樂)

Puyuma Nation: Yinafei mountain cake (以那馡山地粿); Fried wild rat with basil (九層野鼠)

Rukai Nation: Cinavu (taro and meat dumpling) (吉拿富); Grilled boar

Saisiyat Nation: Grilled boar with papaya (木瓜拌山豬肉); Assorted wild flowers (野花拼盤); Cassava and spareribs soup (樹薯排骨湯)

Tsou Nation: Bamboo cooked rice (竹筒飯); Banana cake (香蕉糕)

Yami Nation: Boiled taro and crab (芋泥加蟹肉); Grilled fish Steamed dried fish (蒸魚乾)

Modern Aboriginal cuisine

It seems that an interest in Taiwanese indigenous cuisine gained traction in the media in the mid-1990s, developing alongside increasing governmental action to protect and recognize Taiwanese indigenous peoples. There are restaurants around Taipei that keep the spirit of Indigenous cuisine alive. Whilst chefs in such restaurants often tweak traditional recipes to suit contemporary tastebuds, emphasis of natural foods is still extant. The annual Indigenous Peoples Healthy Cuisine and Innovative Beverage Competition, partly sponsored by the Council of Indigenous Peoples and the Tourism Bureau provides prize money to contestants who creatively use traditional indigenous ingredients in healthy ways. Other similar competitions are held by local governments (such as Kaohsiung City). In Tainan, indigenous people may sell their food at the Cha Ha Mu Aboriginal Park. Such trends are all to promote the wonderful taste of Aboriginal Taiwanese cuisine. The cultural value of indigenous dishes and ingredients has become more widespread among non-indigenous people, but there are many implications with this growth in recent years. Cultivating or foraging for traditional ingredients is often limited on the small plots of land that are legally owned by indigenous people. Some urban Pangcah/Amis people have resorted to foraging without permission on others' land.

During the martial law period indigenous culture was repressed by the government, despite this indigenous cuisine became a part of Taiwan's national identity.

Siraw is an Amis dish of pickled pork.

The importance of wild greens to aboriginal cuisine is being increasingly appreciated. Wild greens refers to both wild plants found in the forest and to those same plants cultivated in domestic gardens. Rinari, in rural Pingtung County, is an aboriginal restaurant of national significance whose twenty seats are notoriously hard to secure. Rinari primarily serves Rukai cuisine.

Beverages

The Taiwanese drink less alcohol per capita than neighboring South Koreans and Japanese. This is believed to be because approximately half of Taiwan's population does not possess the necessary gene to successfully metabolize alcohol. During the Japanese colonial period the production of alcoholic beverages was industrialized and in 1922, production of alcohol was monopolized by the colonial authorities. Modern Taiwanese drinking culture and beverage production is still influenced by the Japanese colonial period.

Beer is a popular beverage in Taiwan. Taiwan both imports and produces a wide variety of beers from mass market lagers to niche craft ales. Some of the well-developed brands include Long Chuan (龍泉), Le Blé d'Or (金色三麥), Jolly Brewery+Restaurant (卓莉手工醸啤酒泰食餐廳), North Taiwan Brewing (北台灣麥酒) and Taihu Brewing (臺虎精釀).

Coffee

The first coffee plants on Taiwan were imported by the British to Tainan in 1884 with the first significant small scale cultivation taking place in New Taipei City's Sanxia District. Tainan remains the heart of Taiwanese coffee culture.

During the Japanese colonial period between 1895 and 1945, coffee plantations were set up in Taiwan. Coffee, like other colonial introductions, was regarded as a sign of modernity. It was often made using a siphon, and tended to be strong and bitter. Production reached a peak in 1941 following the introduction of arabica coffee plants by the Japanese colonial authorities.

More recently, Starbucks' outlets in Taiwan have introduced local drinkers to espresso-based milk beverages, which are often milder than the brews traditionally served there. Domestic production is still small, but of high quality; imported beans account for the vast majority of coffee sold in Taiwan. In 2016, domestic production was 900 tons while 30,000 tons was imported. That year, a Taiwanese, Berg Wu, won the World Barista Championship; the victory helped bring to attention Taiwan's substantial involvement in coffee culture.

By 2020, there were more than 15,000 coffee shops in Taiwan, including Starbucks, Taiwanese coffee shop chains, convenience stores, and independent outlets. During that year, average coffee consumption surpassed average tea consumption for the first time. By 2024, a significant percentage of specialty coffee shops were roasting their own beans, and tourists had started visiting Taiwan specifically to go "cafe hopping". Taiwan had become the third-largest coffee consumer per capita in Asia, and the average Taiwanese person was drinking 177 cups of coffee per year.

Kaoliang liquor

Kinmen Kaoliang Liquor is one of the most popular brands of kaoliang liquor in Taiwan. As its name indicates, it is produced on the island of Kinmen. The mainstays of the range are the standard 58 percent and 38 percent alcohol bottlings. Kinmen's kaoliang production traces its roots back to the Chinese Civil War when Chinese nationalist general Hu Lien encouraged Kinmenese farmers to grow sorghum to produce hard liquor as importing alcohol from Taiwan caused financial strain. Kaoliang liquor has become an integral part of Kinmen's economy and plays a significant role in the culture of Kinmen.

Yusan Kaoliang Chiew (Chinese: 玉山高粱酒; pinyin: Yùshān Gāoliáng Jiǔ) is produced by the Taiwan Tobacco and Liquor Corporation. It is named after the highest mountain in Taiwan, Yushan. One of the most notable products in the range is an "X.O." kaoliang aged for five years in tanks before bottling.

Matsu Tunnel 88 Kaoliang Liquor (Chinese: 馬祖八八坑道高粱酒; pinyin: Bā Bā Kēngdào Gāoliáng Jiǔ) is produced by the Matsu Distillery in Nangan Township, Lienchiang County. The name is derived from the name of an abandoned military tunnel called Tunnel 88 which the distillery took over as storage space for their kaoliang and aged rice wine. All of the distillery's aged kaoliangs are stored in the tunnel for at least five years.

Commercial rum production was introduced into Taiwan along with commercial sugar production during the Japanese colonial period. Rum production continued under the ROC however it was neglected by Taiwan Tobacco and Liquor Corporation which held the national liquor monopoly. The industry diversified after democratization and the de-monopolization of the Taiwanese alcoholic beverage industry.

Taiwanese tea is considered among the best in the world and the country has a unique tea culture.

Whisky

Taiwan has a young but thriving whisky industry buoyed by a massive domestic market for whisky, especially single malt scotch. Taiwan is the only whisky market which drinks more single malt whisky than blended whisky.

Independent winemaking was illegal in Taiwan for a long time due to the monopoly granted to the Taiwan Tobacco and Liquor Corporation. Independent winemakers became legal in 2002 and in 2014, a Taiwanese wine won its first gold medal at an international competition. In 2019, a red wine from Taichung was awarded a gold medal at the 25th Vinalies Internationales in France. Two of the most acclaimed wineries are Domaine Shu Sheng and Weightstone Vineyard Estate & Winery. Although it was once largely lost, Taiwan's indigenous winemaking culture is staging a comeback.

Sake consumption started during the Japanese colonial period. The first sake was made in Taiwan in 1914, the largest contemporary domestic brand is Yuchun produced by the Taiwan Tobacco and Liquor Corporation. A number of smaller producers also exist with an emphasis placed on unique products made with local rice. Taiwan also imports large amounts of sake from Japan. Its proximity and the volume of the trade allows merchants in Taiwan to stock fresh and limited production sake which is not widely available elsewhere outside Japan.

Fine dining

Fine dining in Taiwan is often of a mixed identity. For example, wedding banquets in Taiwan typically feature Japanese sashimi as the first course with traditional Taiwanese and Chinese dishes following. In the 21st century, indigenous ingredients, dishes, and techniques have made their way into high end restaurants.

In 2018, La Liste listed 10 restaurants in Taiwan among the world's 1,000 best.

The Michelin Guide began reviewing restaurants in Taipei in 2018 and Taichung in 2020. The 2020 Michelin awarded stars to 30 restaurants in Taiwan, four in Taichung and 26 in Taipei. With three stars, the Cantonese restaurant Le Palais is the country's highest rated restaurant. The 2020 list also bestowed the Bib Gourmand on 54 restaurants in Taipei and 21 in Taichung. The expansion of the Michelin Guide to Taiwan increased international recognition for Taiwanese restaurants. In 2023, the Michelin Guide was expanded to Tainan and Kaohsiung.

There are significant differences between the fine dining scenes in Taipei and Taichung. In Taichung, an emphasis is placed on ceremony with large tables and private rooms common, a premium is also placed on parking with restaurants having more than 100 parking spaces. This is due in part to Taichung's strong small and medium enterprises as well as a multitude of informal recreational and fraternal organizations. In Taipei, fine dining restaurants and tables are generally smaller with most customers being couples or small groups, in general, service is less formal than in Taichung. In Taipei, there is more international influence in the fine dining scene while Taichung retains a strong affinity with traditional dishes. In the 2010s, fine dining restaurants which more closely followed international trends proliferated in Taichung. Lanshu Chen was particularly important in gaining Taichung international recognition.

Foreign cuisine in Taiwan

Fusion

Fusion cuisine is very popular in Taiwan. Many Taiwanese dishes are a result of cultural fusion, such as the Taiwanese version of pastel de nata which are a legacy of Portuguese colonialism in neighboring Macao.

Italian

Italian cuisine has been popular in Taiwan for a long time, but the country had few authentic Italian restaurants and even fewer Italian chefs until the late 1990s and early 2000s. Due to the 2008 financial crisis, many Italians emigrated from Italy to healthier economies. This led to a rapid increase in both the number of Italian restaurants and the number of Italian expats in Taiwan. While most restaurants follow the traditional Italian course style, the meal proportions are influenced by Italian-American cuisine. Taiwanese diners have become increasingly passionate and discerning about Italian cuisine. Michael de Prenda was one of the innovators of Italian cuisine in Taiwan, starting multiple restaurants, a market, and a farm.

Pizza is one of the most popular foods in Taiwan. The first pizza restaurant opened in the 1970s and the industry grew rapidly in the 2000s driven by an increasing demand for quality Italian and American style pizza from an affluent younger generation which had spent time abroad and brought back a taste for it.

Chain pizza restaurants like Pizza Hut and Domino's Pizza are known for running promotional pizzas with outrageous toppings like spicy hotpot, cilantro and century egg with pig's blood, beef and kiwi, glutinous rice, ramen, and stinky tofu in an attempt to get national and international publicity. Pizza Hut entered the Taiwanese market in 1986 and Domino's followed in the late 1980s. In 2022, each company had more than 150 stores in Taiwan.

Indian

Historically overseas Chinese from India would travel to Taiwan to learn cooking. Indian restaurants existed in Taiwan, but overall the cuisine was slow to catch on.

Indian food became popular in Taiwan in the 2000s. The number of Indian restaurants has grown along with the growth of the Indian and larger South Asian community in Taiwan, however, most customers in Indian restaurants are local with Indian food also being found in university cafeterias and other institutional settings.

Russian

Along with the fleeing KMT came White Russian refugees who had sought shelter from the Russian Revolution in China. George Elsner founded the first Russian restaurant, The Café Astoria, in Taiwan in 1949. The Café Astoria was a center of Russian expat life in Taiwan during its early years. Chiang Ching-kuo and his Russian wife, Faina Vakhreva, often brought their children with them to eat there. Elsner died stateless in Taiwan.

Nordic

Nordic haute cuisine is popular in Taiwan's major cities, with restaurants offering both authentic Nordic cuisine and Nordic cuisine adapted to local ingredients and tastes.

Hong Kong

The increase in immigration from Hong Kong following the pro-democracy protests brought an increased focus on Hong Kong cuisine, along with a fusion between Hong Kong and Taiwan cuisines. Taiwan is considered a safe haven for Hongkongers, with many opening shops and restaurants to serve food they were unable to find in Taiwan, or which they did not feel was up to Hong Kong standards.

Japanese

Taiwan, in particularly Taipei, is regarded as having some of the best Japanese food outside of Japan. This is due to the legacy of Japanese colonialism as well as ongoing cultural and commercial exchange.

Ramen restaurants in Taiwan often create unique and outlandish ramen dishes including durian, whole giant isopod, crocodile leg, and whole frog.

Burmese

Burmese and Chinese Burmese restaurants are primarily located in the Little Burma section of Taipei. Chinese Burmese immigration to Taiwan began in the 1950s.

Chinese

In the decades since the KMT's retreat, these regional dishes have evolved and become part of Taiwanese cuisine.

According to Taiwanese chef Fu Pei-mei, authentic Chinese culinary traditions were properly preserved in Taiwan. This claim to authenticity, common among Fu's generation, was in part due to the Kuomintang's Chinese nationalist political messaging which extended well beyond cuisine. The authenticity of regional Chinese cuisine in Taiwan has been challenged.

Singaporean

Taiwan has a significant Singaporean community. In 2020, the Taichung-based JL Studio from Singaporean chef Jimmy Lim Tyan Yaw was awarded a second Michelin star, becoming the highest rated Singaporean restaurant in the world.

Taiwanese cuisine abroad

Taiwanese cuisine has a global presence. Taiwanese chefs have been extremely successful abroad cooking both Taiwanese and international cuisine. Well known chefs include André Chiang.

Culinary diplomacy

Along with its semiconductor industry, Taiwan's cuisine is one of its most prominent aspects internationally. Taiwan has used culinary diplomacy to bolster its tourism sector and to conduct diplomacy in countries with which it has limited official ties. In 2010, Taiwan's Ministry of Economic Affairs launched a £20-million culinary diplomacy campaign called "All in Good Taste: Savor the Flavors of Taiwan". It promoted Taiwanese venues internationally, sponsored chefs, hosted food festivals and competitions, and emphasized elements such as bubble tea, oyster omelette, and Taiwan's night markets. Since 2010, the ministry has sent chefs abroad to promote Taiwanese cuisine.

State banquets have formed an important part of Taiwanese diplomacy since the era of one-party rule by the KMT. General Tso's chicken was invented by the KMT's head chef Peng Chang-kuei in the 1950s to feed visiting American military dignitaries.

The banquets are meant to present a message to guests and as such dishes and styles have varied over the years under different administrations. There has been an increasing emphasis on serving Taiwanese ingredients cooked in a distinctly Taiwanese style.

United States

Taiwanese immigrant restaurateurs were largely responsible for the shift of American Chinese food from Cantonese-focused cuisine to diverse cuisine featuring dishes from many regions in China. The immigration of Taiwanese chefs to the United States began in the 1950s. At the time, cooks in Taiwan were trained in traditional Chinese regional cooking as this fit the chosen identity of the KMT. Taiwanese restaurateurs changed the food landscape of many American cities, including New York City, and pioneered innovations such as picture menus and food delivery. Many of the immigrants to the United States during this period had been born in China and fled to Taiwan with the retreating KMT, particularly former residents of the Dachen Islands who had been evacuated in 1955.

Traditionally, Taiwanese food has been hard to differentiate from Chinese and Japanese food abroad, since many Taiwanese chefs cooked simplified or westernized versions of traditional Taiwanese, Japanese, or Chinese dishes. In 2018, there was a rapid growth in the number of authentic Taiwanese restaurants in New York City and across the country, which coincided with an increased interest in regional Chinese food and in Taiwan itself. Some object to the politically fraught inclusion of Taiwanese cuisine under the banner of regional Chinese food and point out that it is inaccurate.

Taiwanese American cuisine is emerging as a full cuisine in its own right. Myers + Chang in Boston was one of the first restaurants to explicitly describe their food as such. In 2018, James Beard Award-winning chef Stephanie Izard opened a Taiwanese snack/dessert shop in Chicago. Taiwanese cuisine has a significant presence in the San Francisco Bay Area. Most Taiwanese restaurants in the Bay Area are located in the suburbs. Increasing interest in authentic Taiwanese food is coming from ex-pats and second generation Taiwanese Americans.

A Taiwanese American cookbook, First Generation, was published by Frankie Gaw in 2022. In 2023, Cathy Erway published Win Son Presents: A Taiwanese American Cookbook.

Kato by Chef Jon Yao is a Michelin-starred restaurant serving Taiwanese food in Los Angeles.

Culinary education

Historically, culinary education was informal with apprentices learning from a master for many years before they practice the craft on their own. The first college level course in cooking was implemented in 1986 at Danshui Technical College.

Culinary schools

Danshui Technical College

National Kaohsiung University of Hospitality and Tourism

Events

The main cooking show in Taiwan is the Taiwan Culinary Exhibition (TCE). In 2023, the TCE was held at the Taipei World Trade Center the and featured four areas "Gourmet Tastes, Culinary Exploration, Government Pavilion, and Exotic Foods."

See also

Taiwan portal

Food portal

Agriculture in Taiwan

List of restaurants in Taiwan

Maritime industries of Taiwan

Q texture

References

^ Chang, Erchen (12 May 2023). "A taste of Taiwan, from comforting noodles to spicy broths". National Geographic. Archived from the original on 12 May 2023. Retrieved 18 May 2023.

^ Wahn, I-Liang (8 February 2022). "Food, Politics and Solidarity Economies in Taiwan". Taiwan Insight. University of Nottingham Taiwan Studies Programme. Retrieved 14 May 2023.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k Nguyen-Okwu, Leslie (6 March 2019). "16 Dishes That Define Taiwanese Food". Eater. Archived from the original on 13 April 2020. Retrieved 27 April 2020.

^ a b Rao, Tejal (21 August 2022). "In a tense political moment, Taiwanese cuisine tells its own story". Japan Times. Retrieved 21 August 2022.

^ Rao, Tejal (16 August 2022). "In a Tense Political Moment, Taiwanese Cuisine Tells Its Own Story". The New York Times. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ a b c d e f Yuan, Li (8 August 2023). "What Cuisine Means to Taiwan's Identity and Its Clash With China". The New York Times. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ a b Chen, Lina (19 March 2017). "Origins of Taiwanese Fusion Cuisine: It's Not That Simple". The News Lens. Retrieved 24 August 2023.

^ a b c d Quartly, Jules (22 January 2017). "From Night Market Treats to Food Court Fine Dining". The News Lens. Retrieved 24 August 2023.

^ a b King, Michelle Tien, ed. (2019). Culinary nationalism in Asia. London, UK. pp. 56–72. ISBN 978-1-350-07869-7. OCLC 1100471127.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)

^ Tseng, Esther (6 February 2024). "Tradition and Innovation: The Protein Power of Instant Noodles". The News Lens. Retrieved 9 February 2024.

^ Wei, Clarissa (2 October 2022). "Forget the Instant Pot, Taiwanese steamer Tatung makes everything from fish to rice to cake – and at last it's easier to buy in the US". South China Morning Post. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ a b "Plenty to Chew on at the Taiwan Culinary Exhibition". Taiwan Business Topics. 13 July 2023. Retrieved 24 August 2023.

^ OUNG, ANGELICA (31 January 2023). "Green Dining Gains Recognition in Taiwan". Taiwan Business Topics. Retrieved 5 February 2023.

^ a b c d Goossaert, Vincent; David A. Palmer (2011). The Religious Question in Modern China. University of Chicago Press. pp. 281–283. ISBN 9780226304168.

^ a b Su, Lynn. "A Rice Renaissance". Taiwan Panorama. Retrieved 16 December 2020.

^ Lin, Sean (30 October 2014). "History behind Taiwanese cuisine revealed". Taipei Times. Archived from the original on 3 June 2020. Retrieved 3 June 2020.

^ Chang, Meg (31 July 2009). "Groupers help boost nation's aquaculture industry". Taiwan Today. Archived from the original on 7 June 2020. Retrieved 7 June 2020.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n Hiufu Wong, Maggie (24 July 2015). "40 of the best Taiwanese foods and drinks". CNN. Retrieved 29 September 2020.

^ Gardner, Dinah (11 January 2023). "Decoding Dumplings in Taiwan". Taiwan Business Topics. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ "Taiwan Country Profile". Food Export Association of the Midwest USA and Food Export USA–Northeast. Retrieved 21 July 2021.

^ Lee, Daphne K. (4 May 2022). "In New York, Taiwanese Chefs Are Attempting To Define Their Cuisine". Vice. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ "What is Parsley?". HowStuffWorks. 21 November 2007. Retrieved 14 March 2022.

^ Tchea, Michelle (27 October 2021). "Taiwanese basil is more than a garnish — it's the main event". SBS. Retrieved 27 October 2021.

^ Chang, Erchen (12 May 2023). "A taste of Taiwan, from comforting noodles to spicy broths". National Geographic. Archived from the original on 12 May 2023. Retrieved 12 May 2023.

^ Wei, Clarissa (22 September 2023). "Sweet and sour pineapple prawns". BBC Travel. Retrieved 23 September 2023.

^ Wei, Clarissa (29 May 2021). "Black Vinegar Doesn't Just Season a Dish–It Transforms It". Bon Appétit. Retrieved 30 May 2021.

^ Wei, Clarissa (25 January 2023). "Taiwanese Soy Paste Is the Sweet, Glossy Base of My Favorite Sauces". Bon Appétit. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ "How Did Taiwan Become an Eaters' Paradise?". Taiwan News. 12 August 2023. Retrieved 9 February 2024.

^ Lin, Ming-teh (2006). "Popular Food Culture in Taiwan". Government Information Office. Archived from the original on 20 June 2012. Retrieved 15 December 2010.

^ Tsai, Luke (26 July 2023). "Why Taiwanese People Love Outdoor Grilling". KQED. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Horton, Chris (12 February 2019). "Taiwanese cuisine's delicious secret set to emerge: Cheap and cheerful rechao restaurants are a cultural institution". The Nikkei. Archived from the original on 23 September 2024. Retrieved 23 September 2024.

^ Hsieh, Terence (5 September 2020). "Midnight in Taipei". The World of Chinese. Archived from the original on 23 September 2024. Retrieved 23 September 2024.

^ Wei, Clarissa (2 May 2023). "Move Over, Night Markets—Why Rechao Restaurants Are the Place to Be in Taiwan. Across Taiwan, rechao restaurants offer diners noisy, communal, no-frills, and positively joyful eating experiences". AFAR. pp. 96–104. Archived from the original on 23 September 2024. Retrieved 23 September 2024.

^ Jen, Victoria. "Taiwan local street banquet chefs hit hard by dampened Chinese New Year festivities amid COVID-19". Channel News Asia. Archived from the original on 9 February 2021. Retrieved 17 February 2021.

^ Scanlan, Sean (4 January 2023). "Netizens complain of boring Taiwanese banquet dishes". Taiwan News. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Somekh, Simone (22 February 2018). "Hungry for Kosher Food in Taiwan? Look for the Swastikas". Tablet Magazine. Archived from the original on 4 July 2020. Retrieved 4 July 2020.

^ Tseng, Esther. "Taiwan's Vegetarian Awakening". Taiwan Panorama. Retrieved 29 January 2021.

^ Xie, Tina. "Meeting New Demand for Vegetarian Foods". Taiwan Panorama. Retrieved 29 January 2021.

^ Crook, Steven; Hung, Katy Hui-wen (8 October 2018). A Culinary History of Taipei: Beyond Pork and Ponlai. Rowman & Littlefield. p. 50. ISBN 978-1-5381-0138-4. Retrieved 18 July 2023.

^ "Taiwan's meatless success a vegetarian paradise". Taiwan News. 6 May 2023. Retrieved 24 August 2023.

^ Amster-Burton, Matthew (9 May 2017). "The saucy comforts of Taiwanese turkey rice". The Takeout. Retrieved 29 September 2020.

^ Craddock, Kat (18 March 2019). "Taiwan's Coffin Bread Perfects the Art of the Bread Bowl". Saveur. Retrieved 28 January 2020.

^ "2019 Daxi Dried Tofu Festival Opening Ceremony". Taoyuan Government. 16 March 2019. Retrieved 29 January 2021.

^ "Daxi Old Street 大溪老街". Foreigners in Taiwan - 外國人在臺灣. Retrieved 30 July 2024.

^ "Hsinchu Meatballs". OCAC. Archived from the original on 11 January 2004. Retrieved 29 January 2021.

^ Wong, Maggie Hiufu (15 June 2020). "From chow mein to udon: A beginner's guide to Asia's best noodles". CNN. Retrieved 29 January 2021.

^ 丁雅芳 (11 November 2021). "基隆限定「鹹鹹的馬卡龍」曝光 內行人讚爆：吃火鍋必加！" (in Chinese (Taiwan)). SET News. Retrieved 4 June 2025.

^ Liao, George (17 October 2019). "'Buy one and get one free' at Pastry Festival in central Taiwan". Taiwan News. Retrieved 29 January 2021.

^ Everington, Keoni (3 December 2020). "Historic pastry shop burns down in central Taiwan". Taiwan News. Retrieved 29 January 2021.

^ Wei, Clarissa. "Gallery: 25 Things You Must Eat in Tainan, the Culinary Center of Taiwan". Serious Eats. Archived from the original on 12 September 2012. Retrieved 29 January 2021.

^ "A-Gei". New Taipei City. Archived from the original on 27 October 2020. Retrieved 29 September 2020.

^ Bird, Thomas (9 November 2017). "Taiwan's northern tip: weird nature, wonderful street food". South China Morning Post. Retrieved 29 January 2021.

^ Joan H (19 November 2014). "Real street food - No 4: Ice-cream and peanut wrap from Taipei". The Guardian. Retrieved 16 January 2026.

^ 江志雄 (1 March 2018). "天天吃好料》羅東米粉焿、一串心 道地宜蘭味". Liberty Times (in Chinese (Taiwan)). Retrieved 27 January 2026.

^ "別再叫它白菜滷！宜蘭「西魯肉」 多了蛋酥不一樣" (in Chinese (Taiwan)). EBC News. 8 January 2023. Retrieved 26 August 2025.

^ "Oyster omelet the nation's favorite". Taipei Times. CNA. 2 June 2007. p. 2. Archived from the original on 17 May 2008. Retrieved 2 June 2007.

^ Martin, Laura C. (2007). Tea: The drink that changed the world. Rutland: Tuttle Publishing. p. 219. ISBN 9780804837248.

^ "Taiwan Food Guide 外國人最愛的台灣食物". Foreigners in Taiwan - 外國人在臺灣. Retrieved 30 July 2024.

^ a b Cheung, Han (15 September 2020). "Tree to bar to gold". Taipei Times. Archived from the original on 17 September 2020. Retrieved 25 September 2020.

^ Su, Lynn. "A Sweet Vision: Taiwanese Chocolate's Road to the World". Taiwan Panorama. Archived from the original on 26 September 2020. Retrieved 10 December 2019.

^ a b Gillan, Audrey (17 May 2014). "Taiwan, home to the best street food markets in the world". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 16 May 2020. Retrieved 27 April 2020.

^ Joe, Melinda (24 February 2018). "In Taiwan, top chefs are building on a long history of culinary exchange with Japan". Japan Times. ISSN 0447-5763. Archived from the original on 4 August 2018. Retrieved 5 September 2018.

^ Trejaut, Jean A; Kivisild, Toomas; Loo, Jun Hun; Lee, Chien Liang; He, Chun Lin; Hsu, Chia Jung; Li, Zheng Yuan; Lin, Marie (5 July 2005). "Traces of Archaic Mitochondrial Lineages Persist in Austronesian-Speaking Formosan Populations". PLOS Biology. 3 (8): e247. doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.0030247. PMC 1166350. PMID 15984912.

^ 國際化,雙語編排,文化整合,全球華人的雜誌, 台灣光華雜誌 Taiwan Panorama |. "Indigenous Food: The Authentic Flavors of Taiwan". 台灣光華雜誌 Taiwan Panorama | 國際化,雙語編排,文化整合,全球華人的雜誌 (in Chinese). Retrieved 5 March 2024.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)

^ a b "Aboriginal Cuisine Comes to Town". Taiwan Today. Retrieved 5 March 2024.

^ Mackay, George Leslie; MacDonald, James A. (James Alexander) (1896). From far Formosa : the island, its people and missions. University of California Libraries. Edinburgh : Oliphant Anderson and Ferrier. p. 67.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: publisher location (link)

^ Chen, Y. J. (2010, June 15). Embodying nation in food consumption : changing boundaries of "Taiwanese cuisine" (1895-2008). Retrieved from https://hdl.handle.net/1887/15690

^ Crook, Steven; Hung, Katy Hui-wen (8 October 2018). A Culinary History of Taipei: Beyond Pork and Ponlai. Rowman & Littlefield. pp. 20–21. ISBN 978-1-5381-0138-4.

^ Sugimoto, Tomonori (2018). ""Someone Else's Land is Our Garden!": Risky Labor in Taipei's Indigenous Food Boom". Gastronomica. 18 (2): 46–58. doi:10.1525/gfc.2018.18.2.46. ISSN 1529-3262. JSTOR 26499172.

^ Cheung, Han (21 October 2022). "Eating local in indigenous Taitung". Taipei Times. Retrieved 18 November 2022.

^ Cheung, Han (30 April 2022). "Taiwan's 'godmother of wild greens'". Taipei Times. Retrieved 5 May 2022.

^ Tham, Davina (20 April 2019). "Restaurants: Modern Aboriginal cuisine". Taipei Times. Retrieved 24 August 2023.

^ Crook, Steven (23 April 2021). "Highways & Byways: Taiwan's boozy past and present". Taipei Times. Retrieved 6 May 2021.

^ Chou, Cybil Huichen (11 May 2019). "How Taiwanese craft beers are finding fans in Asia and the West". South China Morning Post. Archived from the original on 18 September 2019. Retrieved 28 July 2020.

^ a b Staff Writer (17 February 2021). "FEATURE: Growers along Tainan's 'Coffee Road' want to put local brew on national map". Taipei Times. Retrieved 17 February 2021.

^ a b c d Issak, Ilham (26 October 2024). "Famous for bubble tea, Taiwan is now brewing a path to coffee fame". ABC News (Australia). Retrieved 4 January 2025.

^ "Coffee culture booms in Taiwan". Agencia EFE. Retrieved 30 November 2020.

^ News Desk. "Coffee culture on the rise in Taiwan". The Jakarta Post. Archived from the original on 29 July 2020. Retrieved 4 January 2025.

^ Yuan-ting, Yang; Chung, Jake (31 August 2021). "Coffee consumption exceeds that of tea for the first time". Taipei Times. Retrieved 31 August 2021.

^ China (Taiwan), Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Republic of (18 March 2011). "Kaoliang serves Kinmen a tasty future". Taiwan Today. Retrieved 12 June 2020.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)

^ "嘉義酒廠目前主力產品".

^ "八八坑道高粱酒官方網站".

^ du Toit, Nick (29 July 2011). "Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of Koxinga Gold rum". Taiwan Today. Retrieved 8 June 2021.

^ Koutsakis, George (6 June 2021). "Will Japanese whisky be eclipsed by Taiwan? The island's gin and rum also show promise – with one distillery promising spirits 'good enough for God'". South China Morning Post. Retrieved 8 June 2021.

^ Crook, Steven (9 July 2020). "Exploring the World of Taiwanese Tea". Taiwan Business Topics. Archived from the original on 15 July 2020. Retrieved 28 July 2020.

^ Koutsakis, George (6 October 2019). "Can Taiwan's premium gin producers take on the world – and Taiwanese drinkers who prefer foreign liquor?". South China Morning Post. Archived from the original on 23 November 2019. Retrieved 28 July 2020.

^ Whithead, Richard (5 May 2020). "Tropical terroir made to produce award-winning wines". Beverage Daily. Archived from the original on 9 May 2020. Retrieved 5 May 2020.

^ Cheung, Han (21 March 2020). "Vina Formosa comes of age". Taipei Times. Archived from the original on 23 March 2020. Retrieved 23 March 2020.

^ Hui-ning, Hu (10 March 2019). "Taichung red wine wins gold medal in France". Taipei Times. Archived from the original on 2 September 2019. Retrieved 30 April 2020.

^ Huichen Chou, Cybil (14 September 2019). "Why Hong Kong connoisseurs – and Michelin-star chefs – are taking note of Taiwan's wines". South China Morning Post. Archived from the original on 7 July 2020. Retrieved 30 April 2020.

^ Wang, Ann. "Taiwan's award-winning winemaker aims to revive fading tradition". The Jakarta Post. Reuters. Archived from the original on 10 August 2020. Retrieved 8 August 2020.

^ CHOU, CYBIL. "Taiwan sake boom starts to challenge Japanese traditions". Nikkei Asia. Retrieved 14 March 2022.

^ Haggerty, Nicholas (25 September 2020). "Beyond the Michelin Guide: What Is Real Taiwanese Gourmet?". The News Lens. Archived from the original on 26 September 2020. Retrieved 26 September 2020.

^ KRICH, JOHN. "Taiwan chefs go back to island's roots". Nikkei Asia. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Yang, Sophia (15 December 2018). "10 Taiwan restaurants listed among world's top 1000 by La Liste". Taiwan News. Retrieved 24 August 2023.

^ Sontag, Elazar (25 August 2020). "Michelin Announces 2020 Stars for Taiwan". Eater. Archived from the original on 26 September 2020. Retrieved 25 September 2020.

^ Hsin-Yin, Lee (11 August 2020). "Michelin Guide releases Bib Gourmand list for Taipei, Taichung". Focus Taiwan. Archived from the original on 26 September 2020. Retrieved 25 September 2020.

^ Teo, Mavis (15 February 2023). "6 of the best fine-dining restaurants in Taiwan's capital, Taipei, for Taiwanese, Japanese, Cantonese and Huaiyang cuisine". South China Morning Post. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Shan, Shelley (24 August 2023). "Michelin reveals Taiwan's Bib Gourmand eateries". Taipei Times. Retrieved 24 August 2023.

^ Wu, Sunny (15 January 2021). "Michelin Guide Taiwan – Taipei vs. Taichung". Taiwan Business Topics. Retrieved 15 January 2021.

^ Teo, Mavis (7 March 2023). "Where to eat and drink in Taichung, Taiwan's up-and-coming fine-dining hub – from Michelin-star yakiniku to a French bistro by former Asia's Best Female Chef winner". South China Morning Post. Retrieved 24 August 2023.

^ Chen, Lina (19 March 2017). "Origins of Taiwanese Fusion Cuisine: It's Not That Simple". The News Lens. Archived from the original on 3 June 2020. Retrieved 3 June 2020.

^ Fulco, Matthew (12 January 2018). "Discovering a Little Italy in Taipei". Taiwan Business Topics. Archived from the original on 18 June 2020. Retrieved 1 May 2020.

^ Chou, Min. "An Italian Entrepreneur Realizing 'His Meaning of Life' in Taiwan". Commonwealth. Archived from the original on 26 September 2020. Retrieved 1 May 2020.

^ a b Quartly, Jules (17 January 2022). "A Golden Era for Pizza in Taiwan". Taiwan Business Topics. Retrieved 5 May 2022.

^ Wei, Clarissa (10 December 2024). "Pizza Hut Taiwan Knows It's Making Italians Angry". Atlas Obscura. Retrieved 7 January 2025.

^ Ferry, Timothy (19 January 2018). "Indian Cuisine Heats Up in Taipei". Taiwan Business Topics. Retrieved 24 August 2023.

^ Banka, Neha (18 December 2021). "In Taipei, Indian food makes for good business". Indian Express. Retrieved 19 December 2021.

^ Strong, Matthew (20 June 2020). "Taiwan's Café Astoria inherits spirit of Russia". Taiwan News. Archived from the original on 22 June 2020. Retrieved 20 June 2020.

^ Alamin, Jasmine. "How this young Singaporean chef is making culinary waves in Taiwan". Channel NewsAsia. Archived from the original on 31 December 2019. Retrieved 27 April 2020.

^ Sgarbi, Giulia. "Asia's Highest Climber Mume brings Taiwanese produce into the global spotlight". The World's 50 Best. Archived from the original on 26 September 2020. Retrieved 27 April 2020.

^ GLAUERT, RIK. "Hong Kong protesters revolutionize Taiwan restaurant scene". Nikkei Asia. Archived from the original on 3 June 2020. Retrieved 3 June 2020.

^ Fulco, Matthew (21 January 2021). "Experiencing Taipei's Authentic Japanese Cuisine". Taiwan Business Topics. Retrieved 24 January 2021.

^ Thomas, Jono (16 June 2023). "Durian ramen to go on sale in south Taiwan". Taiwan News. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Everington, Keoni (23 May 2023). "Taipei eatery features giant isopod ramen". Taiwan News. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Mok, Charmaine (24 May 2023). "'Dream ingredient': alien-like isopod ramen dish made with a 14-legged deep-sea creature goes viral in Taiwan". South China Morning Post. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Marcus, Lilit; Chang, Wayne (30 June 2023). "Crocodile ramen is Taiwan's latest food fad". CNN. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Thomson, Jono (13 June 2023). "Whole, 'uncut, unpeeled' frog ramen on the menu in central Taiwan". Taiwan News. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ BARON, JAMES (18 January 2023). "Little Burma: Where Great Food Meets Fascinating History". Taiwan Business Topics. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Tee, Karen (7 August 2023). "Restaurant with most Michelin stars for Singaporean food... is in Taiwan. Welcome to JL Studio". South China Morning Post. Retrieved 24 August 2023.

^ a b c d "Taiwanese cuisine reflects nation's historical odyssey". Taiwan Today. 4 March 2011. Retrieved 27 April 2020.

^ Koutsakis, George. "What Makes A Great Chef? Andre Chiang on Cuisine, Growth, And Taiwan's Culinary Beauty". Forbes. Archived from the original on 22 March 2019. Retrieved 27 April 2020.

^ Chapple-Sokol, Sam (2013). "Culinary Diplomacy: Breaking Bread to Win Hearts and Minds". The Hague Journal of Diplomacy. 8 (2): 161–183. doi:10.1163/1871191x-12341244.

^ "Eight Great Gastrodiplomacy Nations". USC Center on Public Diplomacy. 2 July 2015.

^ Booth, Robert (8 August 2010). "Taiwan launches 'gastro-diplomacy' drive". The Guardian. Retrieved 1 April 2020.

^ Tzu-hsuan, Liu (21 April 2023). "Chefs selected for global six-month cultural tour". Taipei Times. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Tsoi, Grace; Chang, Joy (6 January 2024). "General Tso's chicken to bento bowls: A food guide to Taiwan politics". BBC News. Retrieved 9 February 2024.

^ Tzu-hsuan, Liu (9 February 2024). "Taiwanese cuisine wows at state banquets". Taipei Times. Retrieved 9 February 2024.

^ Pio Kuo, Chunghao. "Taiwaneze immigrand spark a golden age fore Chinese food". NY Food Story. Archived from the original on 21 September 2020. Retrieved 29 April 2020.

^ Wu, Stephenie (5 November 2018). "Taiwanese food is finally having a moment in New York City's crowded restaurant scene". Mic. Archived from the original on 26 September 2020. Retrieved 27 April 2020.

^ Gross, Matt (25 July 2018). "New York City's Taiwanese-Food Boom (It's About Time)". Taste Cooking. Archived from the original on 3 June 2020. Retrieved 3 June 2020.

^ Sietsema, Robert (22 June 2017). "14 Exceptional Taiwanese Restaurants in NYC". Eater New York. Retrieved 24 August 2023.

^ Moskin, Julia (11 June 2019). "A New Generation of Chefs Reframes Taiwanese Cuisine in America". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 1 June 2020. Retrieved 3 June 2020.

^ a b Tsai, Luke (19 May 2021). "The Bay Area's Taiwanese Food Scene Comes Into Its Own". KQED. Retrieved 22 May 2021.

^ Erway, Cathy. "How Today's Taiwanese-American Chefs Rewrote the Rules and Made a New Cuisine". Food and Wine. Archived from the original on 3 June 2020. Retrieved 3 June 2020.

^ Tsai, Luke (11 May 2023). "Taiwanese Food Is Taking Over Union Square — For One Day, Anyway". KQED. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Addison, Bill (3 March 2016). "Tradition and Innovation in America's Taiwanese Cooking". Eater. Retrieved 24 August 2023.

^ Choe, Caroline (6 December 2022). "Frankie Gaw explores Taiwanese American identity through recipes like Cinnamon Toast Crunch mochi". Today. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Varriano, Jackie (26 October 2022). "This Seattleite's debut cookbook explores what Taiwanese American food looks like". Seattle Times. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Ngo, Hope (16 October 2022). "New Cookbook First Generation Is A Love Story To Taiwanese-American Cuisine". Tasting Table. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Rega, Konstantin (29 July 2023). "Embracing Taiwanese Cuisine". Virginia Living. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Chaplin, Cathy (6 July 2023). "Kato Already Has One Michelin Star. Chef Jon Yao Wants More — But Only on His Terms". Eater Los Angeles. Photography by Wonho Frank Lee. Retrieved 9 February 2024.

^ "Culinary exhibition starts in Taipei". Taipei Times. 5 August 2023. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

^ Shu-yu, Li; Kuan-wei, Wu (7 August 2023). "Cuisine with unique flavors wow visitors at Taiwan food expo". Focus Taiwan. Retrieved 13 August 2023.

Further reading

Crook, Steven; Hung, Katy Hui-wen (2018), A Culinary History of Taipei: Beyond Pork and Ponlai, Rowman & Littlefield, ISBN 978-1538101377

Wei, Clarissa (2023). Made in Taiwan: Recipes and Stories from the Island Nation. with Chen, Ivy. New York: S&S/Simon Element. ISBN 9781982198978.

—————— (3 October 2023). "The politics of bubble tea: at last, Taiwanese food is getting the recognition it deserves". The Guardian. Retrieved 13 November 2023.

External links

Media related to Cuisine of Taiwan at Wikimedia Commons

1945–present Retreat to Taiwan Guanbi policy White Terror Martial law Mandarin policy Dang Guo Taiwan Miracle

Retreat to Taiwan

Guanbi policy

White Terror

Martial law

Mandarin policy

Dang Guo

Taiwan Miracle

Archaeological sites

Cultural history Dance history

Dance history

Dutch Formosa

Early Chinese contact

Economic history

Educational history

Historiography

Kingdom of Middag

Kingdom of Tungning

LGBTQ history

Military history

Prehistory

Spanish Formosa

Republic of Formosa

Taiwan under Qing rule

Taiwan under Japanese rule resistance

resistance

Taiwanese television history

Timeline

Geography

Beaches

Cities

Climate

Deforestation

Earthquakes

Endemic species / Protected species

Hot springs

Islands

Mountains

National parks

Rivers

Scenic areas

Superlatives

Urban planning

Volcanoes

Government

Politics

Economy

Cabinet Premier

Premier

Censorship

Civil defense

Constitution Additional Articles

Additional Articles

Elections

Human rights LGBT Freedom of religion

Freedom of religion

Intelligence

Law enforcement

Military

Parliament

President Office of the President Secretary-General Vice President

Office of the President

Secretary-General

Vice President

Political parties

Propaganda

Administrative divisions Special municipalities Counties Cities

Special municipalities

Counties

Cities

List of administrative divisions

Metropolitan areas

Conscription

Cross-Strait relations

Chinese nationalism

Chinese Taipei

De-Sinicization

Foreign relations

North–South divide

Opinion polling on Taiwanese identity

Political status of Taiwan International recognition of Taiwan Chinese unification One Country on Each Side Special non-state-to-state relations Two Chinas Taiwan independence movement

International recognition of Taiwan

Chinese unification

One Country on Each Side

Special non-state-to-state relations

Two Chinas

Taiwan independence movement

Taiwanese nationalism

Aerospace industry

Agriculture Aquaculture Floriculture

Aquaculture

Floriculture

Automotive industry

Banking List of banks Central bank

List of banks

Central bank

Companies Largest State-owned enterprises

Largest

State-owned enterprises

Construction industry

Defense industry

Dollar (currency)

Energy

Exports

Fishing

Forestry

Labor movement

Maritime industries

Mining

Pharmaceutical industry

Semiconductor industry

Stock exchange

Taxation

Telecommunications

Textile

Tourism

Transportation

Uniform Invoice

Water supply and sanitation

National Symbols

People

Society

Culture

Anthems national flag

national

Emblem

Flags current proposed Olympic

current

proposed

Olympic

Flower

Overseas Taiwanese Australia America Canada China Vietnam

Australia

America

Canada

Vietnam

Taiwanese people

Taiwanese indigenous peoples List

Hans Hoklos Hakkas Waishengren

Hoklos

Hakkas

Waishengren

New immigrants

Formosan languages Amis Atayal Bunun Kanakanavu Kavalan Paiwan Puyuma Rukai Saaroa Saisiyat Sakizaya Seediq Thao Tsou Yami

Atayal

Kanakanavu

Kavalan

Paiwan

Puyuma

Saaroa

Saisiyat

Sakizaya

Seediq

Sinitic Mandarin Taiwanese Hokkien Hakka Matsu dialect

Mandarin

Taiwanese Hokkien

Matsu dialect

Sign Language

Braille

Actresses

Architects

Artists

Footballers

Magistrates and mayors

Mathematicians

Musicians

Olympic flagbearers

Photographers

Scientists

Singers

Taiwanese Americans

Wealthiest

Writers

Architecture

Crime Organized crime Sex trafficking

Organized crime

Sex trafficking

Education

Healthcare

International rankings

Inventions and discoveries

Prostitution

Public holidays

Public housing

Squatting

Superlatives

Taiwan studies

Waste management

Animation

Cinema

Cuisine Beer Dessert Wine Whisky

Dessert

Whisky

Drama 2000 to 2010 2011 to 2020 2021 to present

2000 to 2010

2011 to 2020

2021 to present

Fashion

Festivals Film Music

Folk beliefs

Gambling

Glove puppetry

Hunting

Literature

Music Best-selling albums

Best-selling albums

Night markets

Performing arts

Philosophy

Photography

Religion Baháʼí Buddhism Christianity Islam Judaism Secularism Shinto

Baháʼí

Buddhism

Christianity

Judaism

Secularism

Shinto

Smoking

Sports Baseball Football Surfing

Baseball

Football

Surfing

Superstitions Kuai Kuai culture

Kuai Kuai culture

T-Beauty

Taiwanese wave

Television Golden Bell Awards

Golden Bell Awards

Tea tea culture

tea culture

Tourist attractions

Theater

Category

Portal

Outline

Beef noodle soup

Bento (Taiwan Railway Bento)

Congee

Coffin bread

Cuttlefish geng

Eel noodles

General Tso's chicken

Ginger duck

Glass noodles

Karasumi

Khong bah png

Lo bah png

Mongolian barbecue Mongolian beef

Mongolian beef

Mutton hot pot

Neritic squid rice noodles

Oyster vermicelli

Pineapple shrimp balls

Pork ball

Pumpkin rice vermicelli

Rice vermicelli

Sanbeiji

Sesame oil chicken

Sio-tsiú-ke

Ta-a mi

Turkey rice

Tsang Ying Tou

Tshik-á-mī

Tube rice pudding

Se-lóo-bah

Wu geng chang wang

Wanluan pork knuckle

Yao duen pai gu

Ba-wan

Barrel chicken

Chicken wing rice roll

Curry beef turnover

Danbing

Egg sausage

Fish ball

Fragrant sausage

Fried gluten with peanuts

Gua bao

Hujiao bing

Iron egg

Ji Pai

Lu wei

Milkfish congee

Moon shrimp cakes

Nutritious sandwich

Oo-peh-tshiat

Oyster omelette

Popiah

Scallion pancake

Shuangbaotai

Sishen soup

Small sausage in large sausage

Spring roll

Stinky tofu

Taiwanese fried chicken Cutlet

Cutlet

Tāu-kuann-tshiám

Tea egg

Tempura

Ti-hueh-kué

Xiaolongbao

Zongzi

Alivongvong

Cinavu

Millet wine

Aiyu jelly

Apple bread

Bakkwa

Brown sugar cake

Chhau-a-koe

Coconut bar

Concave cake

Communist bandit pastry

Douhua

Dried shredded squid

Egg yolk pastry

Grass jelly

Ji dan gao

Kiâm-piánn

Lek-tau-phong

Mango shaved ice

Ōo-á-ping

Peanut soup

Peanut ice cream roll

Pineapple cake

QQ egg

Scallion bread

Square cookie

Suncake

Taro ball

Taro pastry

Tshuah-ping

Wheel Pie

Youtiao

Coffee

Doujiang

Ginger tea

Grape wine

Kaoliang liquor

Mr. Brown Coffee

Papaya milk

Soy milk

Whisky

Taiwanese tea Bubble tea Cheese tea Fo Shou tea Tung-ting tea High mountain tea Lei cha Pouchong

Bubble tea

Cheese tea

Fo Shou tea

Tung-ting tea

High mountain tea

Lei cha

Pouchong

Watermelon milk

Winter melon punch

Black bean paste

Black vinegar

Milkfish

Rousong

Shacha sauce

André Chiang

Ching He Huang

Erchen Chang

Fu Pei-mei

Justine Li

Peng Chang-kuei

Wang Peng-chieh

Wu Pao-chun

Agriculture

Aquaculture

Kuai Kuai culture

List of Michelin-starred restaurants in Taiwan

List of restaurants in Taiwan

List of Taiwanese desserts and snacks

Night markets List

Tea culture

Q texture

Rechao

Category

Commons

Portal

WikiProject

bookshelf

Afghanistan

Armenia

Azerbaijan

Bahrain

Bangladesh

Bhutan

Brunei

Burma (Myanmar)

Cambodia

Cyprus

East Timor (Timor-Leste)

Georgia

Indonesia

Israel

Jordan

Kazakhstan

North Korea

South Korea

Kuwait

Kyrgyzstan

Lebanon

Malaysia

Maldives

Mongolia

Pakistan

Philippines

Russia

Saudi Arabia

Singapore

Sri Lanka

Tajikistan

Thailand

Turkey

Turkmenistan

United Arab Emirates

Uzbekistan

Vietnam

Abkhazia

Northern Cyprus

Palestine

South Ossetia

Taiwan

British Indian Ocean Territory

Christmas Island

Cocos (Keeling) Islands

Hong Kong

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

United States

Latvia

Israel

Yale LUX

# Khorkhog


Khorkhog (Mongolian: Xopxoг) is a barbecue dish in Mongolian cuisine. Khorkhog is made by cooking pieces of meat inside a container which also contains hot stones and water, and is often also heated from the outside.

Preparation

To make khorkhog, Mongolians take lamb (goat meat can be substituted) and cut it into pieces of an appropriate size while leaving the bones attached. The cook then places ten to twenty fist-sized stones over a fire. When the stones are hot enough, the rocks and the meat are placed in the chosen cooking container. Metal milk jugs are a traditional and typical choice, although any container sturdy enough to hold the hot rocks will suffice.

The heat of the stones and the steam will cook the meat inside the jug. The cook can also put the jug on a fire or the stove if the stones are not hot enough. The stones will turn black from the heat and the fat they absorb from the lamb. The jug remains covered while the cook listens to and smells the meal to judge when it is ready. The stones can take up to an hour and a half to cook the meat sufficiently. When the dish is ready, the cook hands out portions of meat along with the hot stones, which are tossed from hand to hand and are said to have beneficial properties. Diners usually eat khorkhog with their fingers, although knives may be used to slice the meat off the bone.

The dish is said to be a relatively modern, 20th-century invention, dating back to the time of the Soviet Union's military presence in Mongolia, when Mongolians began cooking with cast-off Red Army water jugs. It is a variation of boodog, an older Mongolian dish made with hot stones in which the meat is cooked inside an animal skin. Khorkhog is a popular dish in Mongolian cuisine, but it is generally not served in restaurants.

See also

Food portal

List of lamb dishes

Mongolian cuisine

References

^ Thrift, Eric (2001). The cultural heritage of Mongolia. Naranbulag printing.

^ Sanders, Alan J.K.; J. Bat-Ireedui (1995). Mongolian phrasebook. Lonely Planet. p. 99. ISBN 978-0-86442-308-5. Retrieved 11 December 2010.

^ "Khorkhog - Meat cooked with hot stones - Mongolian Recipes". www.mongolfood.info.

^ The Real Mongolian Barbecue, Luke Tsai, KQED San Francisco

^ "savourasia.com - savourasia Resources and Information". www.savourasia.com. Archived from the original on Apr 22, 2008.

External links

Khorkhog Recipe

Barbacoa

Char siu

Churrasco

Indirect grilling

Inihaw

Korean barbecue

Mangal

Mixed grill

Mongolian barbecue

Schwenker

Shaokao

Shisa nyama

Siu mei

Yakiniku

United States Chicago Kansas City Memphis North Carolina Santa Maria South Carolina St. Louis Texas

Chicago

Kansas City

Memphis

North Carolina

Santa Maria

South Carolina

St. Louis

Barbecue grill

Barrel barbecue

Buccan

Charbroiler

Chimney starter

Disposable grill

Flattop grill

Gridiron

Grilling

Hibachi

Kamado

Pit barbecue

Shichirin

Smoking (Smoke ring)

List of barbecue dishes

List of smoked foods

Anticuchos

Arrosticini

Bakkwa

Barbecue chicken

Barbecue sandwich

Barbecue sauce

Brochette

Bulgogi

Bull roast

Burnt ends

Cha siu bao

Churrasco

Cocoloși

Corn on the cob

Espetada

Fatányéros

Frigărui

Galinha à africana

Jujeh kabab

Kabab barg

Kai yang

Khorkhog

Khorovats Karsi khorovats Khazani khorovats

Karsi khorovats

Khazani khorovats

Kofte kebab

Méchoui

Meurav Yerushalmi

Mixiote

Mookata

Mućkalica

Mu ping

Neobiani

Pig pickin'

Pig roast

Pinchitos

Provoleta

Pulled pork

Ražnjići

Red slaw

Ribs Beef Short ribs Pork Spare ribs

Beef Short ribs

Short ribs

Spare ribs

Sausage sizzle

Shashlik

Shish kebab

Shish taouk

Sosatie

Souvlaki

Suckling pig

Texas smoked brisket

Tsukune

Whole hog barbecue

Yakitori

Australasian Barbecue Alliance

Big Pig Jig

International Bar-B-Q Festival

Kansas City Barbeque Society

Khorovats Festival

Leskovac Grill Festival

Lexington Barbecue Festival

Memphis in May

North Carolina Barbecue Society

Roanoke-Chowan Pork-Fest

Barbecue restaurant List

Churrascaria

Food portal

Category

Commons

WikiProject Food and drink

Oirats

Altai people

Altai Uriankhai

Baatud

Bayads

Chantuu

Choros (Oirats)

Dörbet Oirat Khotons

Khotons

Dzungar people

Khoshut

Kalmyks Buzava

Buzava

Kalmak Tatars

Myangad

Olot people

Sart Kalmyks

Torghut

Upper Mongols

Zakhchin

Oirat language Alasha dialect Darkhad dialect Kalmyk Oirat Bible translations into Kalmyk State Anthem of Kalmykia Torgut Oirat Sart Kalmyk language

Alasha dialect

Darkhad dialect

Kalmyk Oirat Bible translations into Kalmyk State Anthem of Kalmykia Torgut Oirat

Bible translations into Kalmyk

State Anthem of Kalmykia

Torgut Oirat

Sart Kalmyk language

Clear Script

Üylintey Badan

Khuuhai Dayuu

Ugetchi Khashikha

Batula Chinsan

Toghon

Esen Taishi

Amasanj

Ishtömör

Khishig

Arkhan

Büüvei

Khongor Khan

Abai Khatan

Tursyn Tayiji

Kharkhul

Kalmyk Khanate:

Kho Orluk

Shukhur Daichin

Putsug/Monchak

Ayuka Khan

Tseren Donduk Khan

Donduk Ombo Khan

Donduk Dashi Khan

Ubashi Khan

Dzungar Khanate:

Erdeni Batur

Sengge

Galdan Boshugtu Khan

Tsewang Rabtan Khan

Galdan Tseren Khan

Tsewang Dorji Namjal

Lama Dorji

Dawachi

Amursana

Khoshut Khanate:

Güshi Khan

Dayan Khan (Khoshut)

Tenzin Dalai Khan

Tenzin Wangchuk Khan

Lha-bzang Khan

Arkad Chubanov

Chimid Balzanov

Djimba Mikulinov

Erdne Ombadykow

Ivan Bultinovich Kitanov

Lubsan Sharab Tepkin

Menko Bormanzhinov

Ngawang Wangyal

Shurguchi Nimgirov

Zaya Pandita

Bible translations into Kalmyk

Bumburjan

Clear Script

Epic of Jangar

Kalmyk loop

Naming

Music State Anthem of Kalmykia

State Anthem of Kalmykia

Tsagaan Sar

Boortsog

Khorkhog

Suutei tsai

Yak butter

Category

Commons

This article about cuisine of Siberia is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

This Mongolian cuisine-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

This article about Buryatia is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

This article about Kalmykia is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

This article about Tuva is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

# Japanese Chinese cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Japanese Chinese cuisine, known as chūka ryōri (中華料理; literally "Chinese food") or simply chūka, refers to Japanese-style Chinese dishes and the restaurants in Japan that serve them. It represents a unique fusion of Japanese and Chinese culinary traditions that have evolved since the late 19th century. This style of food is considered distinct from the "authentic Chinese food" available in Japan, though it retains strong influences from various Chinese regional cuisines, and there is considerable overlap between the two.

A significant number of these dishes were introduced to Japan either by Chinese immigrants or Japanese colonizers returning from the Second Sino-Japanese war in China. This style of cuisine has found its expression in three main types of restaurants: ramen restaurants, dim sum houses, and standard Chinese-style restaurants. Most Japanese Chinese dishes have roots in Cantonese cuisine. Adaptations of Sichuanese cuisine were first introduced to Japan by celebrity chef Chen Kenmin.

The shippoku culinary style of Nagasaki is heavily influenced by Chinese cuisine, but it is not classified as Japanese Chinese cuisine, as it originated in the 17th century, predating the development of modern Japanese Chinese cuisine.

Chinese restaurants in Japan

Chinese restaurants, known as chūka ryōriya (中華料理屋) or chūka hanten (中華飯店), serve a distinct set of popular dishes that are not necessarily typical of authentic Chinese cuisine. They also cater to Japanese tastes. Currently, most towns in Japan have at least one Chinese eatery, as the cuisine is very popular. There are also many packaged sauces available for Japanese people to cook Chinese dishes at home.

Japanese Chinese dishes

General:

Kara-age (唐揚, lit. Chinese fry) are bite-sized pieces of chicken thigh, dipped in a thick batter and fried. Usually, it is served without sauce. Some restaurants serve this with a salt and pepper mixture on the side for dipping, and some recipes call for a mixture of soy sauce, vinegar and scallions similar to that used on dumplings.

Chukaman (中華まん, lit. Chinese-style steamed bun) or nikuman (肉まん) is the Japanese name for Chinese baozi, steamed buns filled with cooked ground pork, beef, or other ingredients.

Chāhan (炒飯 or チャーハン) is sometimes called "yakimeshi", literally meaning fried rice. It uses Japanese short-grain rice, which generally has a stickier consistency than that used in other countries. Additionally, though there are many different recipes using such diverse ingredients as Welsh onion, ground pork, crab, bamboo shoots, the classic Japanese fried rice does not use soy sauce, remaining white when served. It typically uses egg, green peas, and thinly sliced ham.

Dishes derived from Sichuan cuisine:

Mābō-dōfu (麻婆豆腐) are stir-fried dishes of ground pork mixture with tofu cubes (mābō-dōfu) in a slightly spicy sauce.

Mābō-nasu (麻婆茄子) are stir-fried dishes of ground pork with eggplant (mābō-chezu) in a slightly spicy sauce. The dish was popularized in Japan by Chen Kenmin in 1952.

Ebi no chili sauce (えびのチリソース) is a spicy, thick-sauced shrimp dish. As the name suggests, chili sauce is used.

Hoi kō rō (回鍋肉) is a stir-fry of thinly sliced pork and cabbage in a miso-based sauce and pinch of chilli.

Banbanji (棒棒鶏) is a cold dish of steamed chicken which is shredded and covered in a sesame sauce. It is often accompanied by cold vegetables such as carrot and cucumber as a salad or appetizer.

Dishes derived from Fujian cuisine:

Champon (ちゃんぽん) is a ramen-like dish, topped with fried pork, seafood, and vegetables.

Chin-jao rōsu (青椒肉絲; also called pepper steak) is a stir-fry of thinly sliced beef strips with Japanese green peppers and often bean sprouts in an oyster sauce.

Dishes derived from Cantonese cuisine:

Ramen (拉麺, ラーメン or らあめん) is a dish of noodles in broth, usually with meat and vegetable toppings, is occasionally referred to as chuka soba (中華そば, lit. "Chinese noodles.") In Japan, ramen is one of the most popular fast-food options. Though every Japanese city has numerous inexpensive ramen restaurants specializing in these noodles, numerous varieties of instant ramen (much like the Japanese equivalent of the frozen TV dinner) are available. The ramen primarily derives from the noodle soups in Cantonese cuisine, but these noodles have changed much since their origin in China.

Chāshū (チャーシュー) is derived from char siu (叉燒 barbecued pork tenderloin). However, while the original Cantonese version is roasted after marinating in a sweet sauce that gives it a red colour, the Japanese version is instead red cooked. The switch from roasting the pork to red cooking it is potentially a Shanghainese influence.

Yūrinchi (油淋鶏, lit. "oil-drenched chicken") is deep-fried chicken or karaage topped with a vinegar and soy sauce-based sweet-and-sour sauce and chopped scallions, often served on a bed of shredded lettuce.

Subuta (酢豚) is the Japanese take on sweet and sour pork. It usually has a thicker, amber-colored sauce, unlike the striking orange or red of the Americanized version. Also unlike the American version, it does not typically contain pineapple. Another common dish substitutes the fried pork in this dish with small fried meat-balls, called "niku-dango". Chicken is sometimes used as a substitute to pork for this dish.

Harumaki (春巻き, lit. "Spring Rolls") are very similar to those found in Americanized Chinese restaurants, with a thin wrapper and vegetables inside.

Shumai (焼売 or シュウマイ) is a type of traditional Chinese dumpling made with pork or glutinous rice.

Chūkadon (中華丼) is a Cantonese-style stir fry of vegetables and meat on top of rice.

Kani-tama (かに玉 or 蟹玉) a Japanese adaptation of the Cantonese dish foo yung hai (芙蓉蟹). It is a crab meat omelette served with a thick, brownish sauce. Tenshindon (天津丼), also known as Tenshinhan (天津飯), is a dish of crab meat omelette (Kani-tama) served over rice. The dish name derived from the port city of Tianjin in China but it does not originate from there.

Dishes derived from Northeast Chinese cuisine:

Gyōza (餃子 or ギョーザ), as mentioned before, are a very popular dish in Japan. Most often, they are seen in their pan-fried form, but they can be served boiled as dumplings or even deep fried, as well. They are also commonly found in ramen shops as well as general Chuka restaurants.

Jingisukan (ジンギスカン) is a mutton dish prepared on a grill.

Morioka jajamen (盛岡じゃじゃ麺) is based on zhajiangmian. Takashina Kanshou, a Japanese colonizer in Manchukuo, encountered zhajiangmian during his time there. After repatriating to Japan following World War II, he introduced the dish in Morioka, where it developed into the local variation known as jajamen.

Dishes derived from Jiangsu cuisine:

Shoronpo is the Japanese pronunciation of Xiao Long Bao (小籠包), a steamed juicy pork dumpling (also called a "soup dumpling"), popularized in Shanghai.

Hiyashi chūka (冷やし中華) is an adaptation of the liangbanmian from Shanghai.

Dishes derived from Zhejiang cuisine:

Buta no Kakuni (豚の角煮) is thick slices of pork bellies stewed in a soy sauce based mixture, often served with Shanghai bok choy and Chinese mustard.

See also

Japan portal

Taiwan portal

China portal

Food portal

Korean Chinese cuisine

Chinese people in Japan

References

^ Chinese Cuisine/Chuka Cuisine, Gurunavi. Retrieved 30 May 2014.

External links

Outdoor Japan - Contains a brief overview of ramen and Chinese-Japanese cooking, as well as other Japanese cooking styles.

World Ramen.net - Comprehensive Ramen site with pictures and reviews.

Chahan

Curry Katsu curry

Katsu curry

Glutinous

Hatsuga genmai

Donmono Chūkadon Gyūdon Katsudon Oyakodon Tekkadon Tenshindon Unadon

Chūkadon

Gyūdon

Katsudon

Oyakodon

Tekkadon

Tenshindon

Unadon

Hayashi rice

Onigiri Tenmusu

Tenmusu

Omurice

Sushi History Sustainable

History

Sustainable

Sekihan

Takikomi

Harusame

Hiyamugi

Hiyashi chūka

Ramen Champon Kagoshima Muroran curry Tantan-men Tonkotsu Tsukemen

Champon

Kagoshima

Muroran curry

Tantan-men

Tonkotsu

Tsukemen

Shirataki

Okinawa soba Soki

Sōmen Salad

Udon Yakiudon

Yakiudon

Yakisoba

Monjayaki

Okonomiyaki Hirayachi

Hirayachi

Takoyaki

Melonpan

Milk bread

Yudane

Agedashi dōfu

Agemono Furai Karaage Korokke Kushikatsu Satsuma-age Tempura

Karaage

Korokke

Kushikatsu

Satsuma-age

Tempura

Chawanmushi

Chikuzenni

Kabayaki

Kakuni

Kushiyaki

Nabemono

Namasu

Nikujaga

Onsen tamago

Sashimi Fugusashi

Fugusashi

Shabu-shabu

Shiokara

Sukiyaki

Tamagoyaki

Tokoroten

Tonkatsu

Tororo

Tsukemono Nukazuke Takuan

Nukazuke

Takuan

Tsukudani

Tsukune

Yakiniku

Yakitori

Tonjiru

Kenchin-jiru

Miso soup

Suimono [ja]

Bento Ekiben Kyaraben Makunouchi Wappameshi

Ekiben

Kyaraben

Makunouchi

Wappameshi

Honzen-ryōri

Jūbako

Kaiseki

Osechi

Sake Amazake Nigori Toso

Amazake

Nigori

Shōchū Awamori Habushu Umeshu

Awamori

Habushu

Umeshu

Green tea History Bancha Gyokuro Hōjicha Kabuse Kukicha Matcha Matcha latte Sencha Uji

History

Bancha

Gyokuro

Hōjicha

Kabuse

Kukicha

Matcha Matcha latte

Matcha latte

Sencha

Herbal teas Genmaicha Sobacha Kombu-cha Mugicha

Genmaicha

Sobacha

Kombu-cha

Mugicha

Ramune

Aojiru

C.C. Lemon

Calpis

Canned coffee Boss Georgia

Georgia

Energy drinks Lipovitan Oronamin C

Lipovitan

Oronamin C

Sports drinks Aquarius Pocari Sweat

Aquarius

Pocari Sweat

Yakult

Amanattō

Botan Rice Candy

Daifuku

Dango Chichi Kibi

Chichi

Dorayaki

Karukan

Konpeitō

Mochi Agemochi Goheimochi Kankoro Kuzumochi Zunda-mochi

Agemochi

Goheimochi

Kankoro

Kuzumochi

Zunda-mochi

Senbei Arare

Shiruko

Taiyaki

Warabimochi

Square watermelon

Yubari King

Ruby Roman

Shine Muscat

Aonori

Bamboo shoot

Beni shōga

Burdock

Daikon Sakurajima

Sakurajima

Fish Kamaboko Mentaiko / tarako Surimi Tobiko

Kamaboko

Mentaiko / tarako

Surimi

Tobiko

Hijiki

Kanzuri

Karashi

Katsuobushi

Konnyaku

Kuromitsu

Kuzuko

Mayonnaise

Mushrooms Enokitake Matsutake Shiitake

Enokitake

Matsutake

Shiitake

Sake kasu

Sansyō

Sauce Ponzu Soy Tare Tonkatsu Worcestershire

Tonkatsu

Worcestershire

Sesame oil

Shichimi

Tenkasu

Umeboshi

Wasabi

Yuzu Yuzu koshō

Yuzu koshō

Chawan

Chopsticks

Kitchen knife Deba bōchō Gyuto Maguro bōchō Nakiri bōchō Santoku Sashimi bōchō Usuba bōchō Yanagi ba

Deba bōchō

Maguro bōchō

Nakiri bōchō

Santoku

Sashimi bōchō

Usuba bōchō

Yanagi ba

Rice cooker

Shamoji

Suribachi

Dishes Ramen Soups and stews

Soups and stews

Sushi and sashimi ingredients

Chinmi

Ichijū-sansai

Itameshi

Omakase

Teppanyaki

Tokusanhin

Teriyaki

Customs and etiquette

Okinawan cuisine

Category

Algeria

Morocco

Cape Verde

Nigeria

Senegal

Ethiopia

Tanzania

Uganda

Cameroon

Democratic Republic of Congo

Republic of Congo

Angola

Botswana

Lesotho

Madagascar

Malawi

Mauritius

Mozambique

Namibia

Réunion1

Seychelles

South Africa

Zambia

Zimbabwe

Belize

Caribbean Chinese cuisine

Dominican Republic

Guyana

Jamaica

Puerto Rico cuisine

cuisine

Suriname

Trinidad and Tobago

Canada cuisine from Hong Kong from Taiwan British Columbia (Vancouver) Toronto

cuisine

from Hong Kong

from Taiwan

British Columbia (Vancouver)

Toronto

Mexico

United States American-born Chinese cuisine Chinese American church from Hong Kong from Taiwan from Malaysia from Singapore Fuzhounese History Tibetan Hakka Hoklo by city and state

American-born Chinese

cuisine

Chinese American church

from Hong Kong

from Taiwan

from Malaysia

from Singapore

Fuzhounese

History

Tibetan

by city and state

Costa Rica

Nicaragua

Panama

Argentina

Brazil

Chinese Latin American cuisine

Guyana

Peru Chifa

Suriname

Uruguay

Venezuela

Kazakhstan

Kyrgyzstan

Japan Cuisine Shippoku

Cuisine

Shippoku

Korea cuisine

cuisine

Mongolia

Brunei

Cambodia cuisine Hokkien

cuisine

Hokkien

Timor-Leste

Indonesia Benteng Chinese cuisine Peranakan Chinese Bangka-Belitung Bali Maluku

Benteng Chinese

cuisine

Peranakan Chinese

Bangka-Belitung

Maluku

Malaysia cuisine Peranakan / Baba Nyonya / Straits Chinese cuisine Sino-Native

cuisine

Peranakan / Baba Nyonya / Straits Chinese cuisine

cuisine

Sino-Native

Myanmar Kokang Panthay Pashu

Kokang

Panthay

Philippines cuisine Sangley

cuisine

Sangley

Singapore Chinese nationals Straits-Born Chinese

Chinese nationals

Straits-Born Chinese

Thailand Chin Haw Phuket Baba

Chin Haw

Phuket Baba

Vietnam Minh Hương Sán Dìu Ngái Hoa Nùng

Minh Hương

Sán Dìu

Hoa Nùng

Bangladesh

India cuisine

cuisine

Pakistan cuisine

cuisine

Sri Lanka

Israel

Turkey

United Arab Emirates

Denmark

Finland

Norway

Sweden

Belgium

France Paris

Germany Nazi era

Nazi era

Ireland

Netherlands

United Kingdom cuisine from Hong Kong London Triads

cuisine

from Hong Kong

London

Triads

Portugal

Bulgaria

Czech Republic

Romania

Russia Soviet deportations

Soviet deportations

Serbia

Turkey

Australia cuisine restaurants Chinese Methodist Church in Australia Hong Kong Australians Taiwanese Australians

cuisine

restaurants

Chinese Methodist Church in Australia

Hong Kong Australians

Taiwanese Australians

Hawaii

New Zealand cuisine

cuisine

Papua New Guinea

List of British Chinese people

List of Chinese diaspora people

List of Chinese Americans

List of foreign politicians of Chinese descent

List of heads of state and government of Chinese descent

List of naturalised Olympic table tennis players from China

List of Malaysians of Chinese descent

All-China Federation of Returned Overseas Chinese

Association of Chinese Professionals

Asiatic Exclusion League

Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association

Chinese Congress on World Evangelization

Chinese Empire Reform Association

Chinese Hand Laundry Alliance

Chinese Music Society of North America

Chinese Students and Scholars Association

Citizen Power Initiatives for China

Confucius Institute Criticism

Criticism

Eng Suey Sun Association

Free Tibet

Gin Family Association

Hanban

Lung Kong Tin Yee Association

List of Chinese American associations

Overseas Chinese Affairs Office

Overseas Chinese banks

Overseas Chinese History Museum of China

Overseas Chinese University

Overseas Community Affairs Council

Tong Tong Wars

Tong Wars

Tongmenghui

Chinese as a foreign language

Hwa Chong Institution

Malaysia

Philippines

Taiwan

United States Association of Chinese Schools

Association of Chinese Schools

Anti-Chinese sentiment

Aid Refugee Chinese Intellectuals

Chinese Bridge

Chinese emigration

Chinese restaurant List

Chinatown Lists of Chinatowns Social issues

Lists of Chinatowns

Social issues

Chinese intelligence activity abroad

Chinese police overseas service stations

Chinese New Year

Dragon boat Dragon Boat Festival

Dragon Boat Festival

Jook-sing

Kongsi

Language and overseas Chinese communities

Legislation on Chinese Indonesians

Love Boat (study tour)

Operation Fox Hunt

Operation Sky Net

Qingtianese diaspora

Xenophobia and racism related to the COVID-19 pandemic

Snakehead

Transnational lawfare by China

Transnational repression by China

Yellow Peril

# Shippoku


Shippoku (卓袱) is a Japanese culinary style that is heavily influenced by Chinese cuisine. It has been described as a fusion cuisine and as a "hybrid cuisine" that combines elements of European, Chinese and Japanese cuisines. Meats used in shippoku cuisine include fowl, fish, and game meats. Sake typically accompanies shippoku dishes. The shippoku style of service typically includes several small dishes that comprise a full meal.

Etymology

"Shippoku" is a Japanese word that means "table cloth."

History

Shippoku cuisine originated from Chinese immigrants to Nagasaki, Japan during the Edo period, which occurred from 1603 to 1868. Nagasaki was the only place in Japan where foreigners (Portuguese, Dutch and Chinese) were allowed to reside during the "centuries of seclusion." During the eighteenth century in Japan, the popularity of Chinese cuisine increased among Japanese intellectuals, and restaurants that focused upon shippoku and fucha cuisines, a vegetarian cuisine also influenced by Chinese cuisine, emerged.

Shippoku cuisine remains a specialty of Nagasaki.

See also

Food portal

Japan portal

List of Japanese dishes

^ "The word "Shippoku" means table cloth."

References

^ Shurtleff, W.; Aoyagi, A. (1975). The Book of Tofu: Food for Mankind. The Book of Tofu. Autumn Press. p. 120. ISBN 978-0-394-73431-6. Retrieved April 16, 2017.

^ a b Nishiyama, M.; Groemer, G. (1997). Edo Culture: Daily Life and Diversions in Urban Japan, 1600-1868. THE NIPPON FOUNDATION. University of HawaiÊ»i Press. p. 146. ISBN 978-0-8248-1850-0. Retrieved April 16, 2017.

^ Cwiertka, K.J. (2006). Modern Japanese Cuisine: Food, Power and National Identity. University of Chicago Press. p. 94. ISBN 978-1-86189-298-0. Retrieved April 17, 2017.

^ Ejeas. Volume 2. Brill. 2003. p. 95.

^ a b c d History Of Japanese Food. Taylor & Francis. 2014. p. 243. ISBN 978-1-136-60255-9. Retrieved April 16, 2017.

^ Leventer, L. (1996). Fodor's Japan: the complete guide with the best of Tokyo, Kyoto and old Japan. Fodor's Gold Guides. Fodor's Travel Publications. p. 442. ISBN 978-0-679-03035-5. Retrieved April 17, 2017.

^ Japanese inn & travel: illustrated. Eibun Nihon etoki jiten. Japan Travel Bureau. 1990. p. 182. Retrieved April 17, 2017.

External links

Media related to Shippoku cuisine at Wikimedia Commons

Algeria

Morocco

Cape Verde

Nigeria

Senegal

Ethiopia

Tanzania

Uganda

Cameroon

Democratic Republic of Congo

Republic of Congo

Angola

Botswana

Lesotho

Madagascar

Malawi

Mauritius

Mozambique

Namibia

Réunion1

Seychelles

South Africa

Zambia

Zimbabwe

Belize

Caribbean Chinese cuisine

Dominican Republic

Guyana

Jamaica

Puerto Rico cuisine

cuisine

Suriname

Trinidad and Tobago

Canada cuisine from Hong Kong from Taiwan British Columbia (Vancouver) Toronto

cuisine

from Hong Kong

from Taiwan

British Columbia (Vancouver)

Toronto

Mexico

United States American-born Chinese cuisine Chinese American church from Hong Kong from Taiwan from Malaysia from Singapore Fuzhounese History Tibetan Hakka Hoklo by city and state

American-born Chinese

cuisine

Chinese American church

from Hong Kong

from Taiwan

from Malaysia

from Singapore

Fuzhounese

History

Tibetan

by city and state

Costa Rica

Nicaragua

Panama

Argentina

Brazil

Chinese Latin American cuisine

Guyana

Peru Chifa

Suriname

Uruguay

Venezuela

Kazakhstan

Kyrgyzstan

Japan Cuisine Shippoku

Cuisine

Shippoku

Korea cuisine

cuisine

Mongolia

Brunei

Cambodia cuisine Hokkien

cuisine

Hokkien

Timor-Leste

Indonesia Benteng Chinese cuisine Peranakan Chinese Bangka-Belitung Bali Maluku

Benteng Chinese

cuisine

Peranakan Chinese

Bangka-Belitung

Maluku

Malaysia cuisine Peranakan / Baba Nyonya / Straits Chinese cuisine Sino-Native

cuisine

Peranakan / Baba Nyonya / Straits Chinese cuisine

cuisine

Sino-Native

Myanmar Kokang Panthay Pashu

Kokang

Panthay

Philippines cuisine Sangley

cuisine

Sangley

Singapore Chinese nationals Straits-Born Chinese

Chinese nationals

Straits-Born Chinese

Thailand Chin Haw Phuket Baba

Chin Haw

Phuket Baba

Vietnam Minh Hương Sán Dìu Ngái Hoa Nùng

Minh Hương

Sán Dìu

Hoa Nùng

Bangladesh

India cuisine

cuisine

Pakistan cuisine

cuisine

Sri Lanka

Israel

Turkey

United Arab Emirates

Denmark

Finland

Norway

Sweden

Belgium

France Paris

Germany Nazi era

Nazi era

Ireland

Netherlands

United Kingdom cuisine from Hong Kong London Triads

cuisine

from Hong Kong

London

Triads

Portugal

Bulgaria

Czech Republic

Romania

Russia Soviet deportations

Soviet deportations

Serbia

Turkey

Australia cuisine restaurants Chinese Methodist Church in Australia Hong Kong Australians Taiwanese Australians

cuisine

restaurants

Chinese Methodist Church in Australia

Hong Kong Australians

Taiwanese Australians

Hawaii

New Zealand cuisine

cuisine

Papua New Guinea

List of British Chinese people

List of Chinese diaspora people

List of Chinese Americans

List of foreign politicians of Chinese descent

List of heads of state and government of Chinese descent

List of naturalised Olympic table tennis players from China

List of Malaysians of Chinese descent

All-China Federation of Returned Overseas Chinese

Association of Chinese Professionals

Asiatic Exclusion League

Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association

Chinese Congress on World Evangelization

Chinese Empire Reform Association

Chinese Hand Laundry Alliance

Chinese Music Society of North America

Chinese Students and Scholars Association

Citizen Power Initiatives for China

Confucius Institute Criticism

Criticism

Eng Suey Sun Association

Free Tibet

Gin Family Association

Hanban

Lung Kong Tin Yee Association

List of Chinese American associations

Overseas Chinese Affairs Office

Overseas Chinese banks

Overseas Chinese History Museum of China

Overseas Chinese University

Overseas Community Affairs Council

Tong Tong Wars

Tong Wars

Tongmenghui

Chinese as a foreign language

Hwa Chong Institution

Malaysia

Philippines

Taiwan

United States Association of Chinese Schools

Association of Chinese Schools

Anti-Chinese sentiment

Aid Refugee Chinese Intellectuals

Chinese Bridge

Chinese emigration

Chinese restaurant List

Chinatown Lists of Chinatowns Social issues

Lists of Chinatowns

Social issues

Chinese intelligence activity abroad

Chinese police overseas service stations

Chinese New Year

Dragon boat Dragon Boat Festival

Dragon Boat Festival

Jook-sing

Kongsi

Language and overseas Chinese communities

Legislation on Chinese Indonesians

Love Boat (study tour)

Operation Fox Hunt

Operation Sky Net

Qingtianese diaspora

Xenophobia and racism related to the COVID-19 pandemic

Snakehead

Transnational lawfare by China

Transnational repression by China

Yellow Peril

# Itameshi


Itameshi (Japanese: イタ飯) is a type of fusion cuisine originally from Japan that combines traditional elements of Japanese food and Italian food. The name comes from the combination of the Japanese name for Italy (イタリア Itaria) and the Japanese word for meal (飯, meshi). This term is used to differentiate Japanese-Italian fusion food from standard Italian food, which is formally referred to in Japanese as itaria-ryōri (イタリア料理).

History

The first Italian restaurant in Japan was Italiaken, opened in 1880 in Niigata by Pietro Migliore, who came to Japan with a French performing troupe.

Italian-Japanese fusion first started in the 1920s when spaghetti was introduced to Japan, and served in small cafes. Before 1970, there were few authentic Italian restaurants in Japan, with only a few pizza and pasta stores. Italian food would not gain a bigger foothold in the country until the 1990s, when the 1997 Asian financial crisis hit and many upscale restaurants were affected by low wages and increased prices. Many of these restaurants and chefs turned to Italian food as a cheaper alternative and from there, Italian food became even more popular in the country.

The word itameshi became common in the early 1990s, during the Japanese asset price bubble.

Restaurants

Several itameshi chains operate in Japan. A well-known one is the low-cost Saizeriya, which at the end of 2021 operated over 1,500 outlets in Japan and several hundred more overseas. Like many foods in Japan, itameshi can be found at stores near train stations and hotels.

Other restaurants include:

Capricciosa

Friend

Italian Tomato

Jolly-Pasta

Mikazuki

PIETRO

Saizeriya

Segafredo Zanetti

Overseas popularity

The popularity of this specific fusion food has taken off in the United States with many different cook books and videos highlighting these dishes gaining popularity online. This popularity has even led to the opening of restaurants specifically dealing in Itameshi within the country.

Gallery

Ankake spaghetti, served with spicy, extra thick sauce

Ankake spaghetti

Pizza with shrimp and broccoli

Pizza with Japanese mayonnaise

Pizza with whale bacon

Spaghetti in a bento box

Spaghetti with firefly squid

Spaghetti with shimeji mushrooms

Spaghetti with maitake mushrooms

Spaghetti with nattō

See also

Food portal

Naporitan

Yōshoku

Nikkei cuisine

Korean-Mexican fusion

References

^ a b "What is itameshi? 7 easy Japanese-Italian fusion dishes that your kids will eat". 28 January 2020.

^ "Italian Food: Japan's Unlikely Culinary Passion". The Atlantic. 6 October 2010.

^ Germano, Antonello (March 18, 2022). "Saizeriya in China: how a Japanese chain of Italian food turned into a cult". Daxue Consulting - Market Research and Consulting China.

^ "Japanese-Italian Cuisine Finds Its Biggest Stage Yet in NYC at Kimika". 24 September 2021.

Chahan

Curry Katsu curry

Katsu curry

Glutinous

Hatsuga genmai

Donmono Chūkadon Gyūdon Katsudon Oyakodon Tekkadon Tenshindon Unadon

Chūkadon

Gyūdon

Katsudon

Oyakodon

Tekkadon

Tenshindon

Unadon

Hayashi rice

Onigiri Tenmusu

Tenmusu

Omurice

Sushi History Sustainable

History

Sustainable

Sekihan

Takikomi

Harusame

Hiyamugi

Hiyashi chūka

Ramen Champon Kagoshima Muroran curry Tantan-men Tonkotsu Tsukemen

Champon

Kagoshima

Muroran curry

Tantan-men

Tonkotsu

Tsukemen

Shirataki

Okinawa soba Soki

Sōmen Salad

Udon Yakiudon

Yakiudon

Yakisoba

Monjayaki

Okonomiyaki Hirayachi

Hirayachi

Takoyaki

Melonpan

Milk bread

Yudane

Agedashi dōfu

Agemono Furai Karaage Korokke Kushikatsu Satsuma-age Tempura

Karaage

Korokke

Kushikatsu

Satsuma-age

Tempura

Chawanmushi

Chikuzenni

Kabayaki

Kakuni

Kushiyaki

Nabemono

Namasu

Nikujaga

Onsen tamago

Sashimi Fugusashi

Fugusashi

Shabu-shabu

Shiokara

Sukiyaki

Tamagoyaki

Tokoroten

Tonkatsu

Tororo

Tsukemono Nukazuke Takuan

Nukazuke

Takuan

Tsukudani

Tsukune

Yakiniku

Yakitori

Tonjiru

Kenchin-jiru

Miso soup

Suimono [ja]

Bento Ekiben Kyaraben Makunouchi Wappameshi

Ekiben

Kyaraben

Makunouchi

Wappameshi

Honzen-ryōri

Jūbako

Kaiseki

Osechi

Sake Amazake Nigori Toso

Amazake

Nigori

Shōchū Awamori Habushu Umeshu

Awamori

Habushu

Umeshu

Green tea History Bancha Gyokuro Hōjicha Kabuse Kukicha Matcha Matcha latte Sencha Uji

History

Bancha

Gyokuro

Hōjicha

Kabuse

Kukicha

Matcha Matcha latte

Matcha latte

Sencha

Herbal teas Genmaicha Sobacha Kombu-cha Mugicha

Genmaicha

Sobacha

Kombu-cha

Mugicha

Ramune

Aojiru

C.C. Lemon

Calpis

Canned coffee Boss Georgia

Georgia

Energy drinks Lipovitan Oronamin C

Lipovitan

Oronamin C

Sports drinks Aquarius Pocari Sweat

Aquarius

Pocari Sweat

Yakult

Amanattō

Botan Rice Candy

Daifuku

Dango Chichi Kibi

Chichi

Dorayaki

Karukan

Konpeitō

Mochi Agemochi Goheimochi Kankoro Kuzumochi Zunda-mochi

Agemochi

Goheimochi

Kankoro

Kuzumochi

Zunda-mochi

Senbei Arare

Shiruko

Taiyaki

Warabimochi

Square watermelon

Yubari King

Ruby Roman

Shine Muscat

Aonori

Bamboo shoot

Beni shōga

Burdock

Daikon Sakurajima

Sakurajima

Fish Kamaboko Mentaiko / tarako Surimi Tobiko

Kamaboko

Mentaiko / tarako

Surimi

Tobiko

Hijiki

Kanzuri

Karashi

Katsuobushi

Konnyaku

Kuromitsu

Kuzuko

Mayonnaise

Mushrooms Enokitake Matsutake Shiitake

Enokitake

Matsutake

Shiitake

Sake kasu

Sansyō

Sauce Ponzu Soy Tare Tonkatsu Worcestershire

Tonkatsu

Worcestershire

Sesame oil

Shichimi

Tenkasu

Umeboshi

Wasabi

Yuzu Yuzu koshō

Yuzu koshō

Chawan

Chopsticks

Kitchen knife Deba bōchō Gyuto Maguro bōchō Nakiri bōchō Santoku Sashimi bōchō Usuba bōchō Yanagi ba

Deba bōchō

Maguro bōchō

Nakiri bōchō

Santoku

Sashimi bōchō

Usuba bōchō

Yanagi ba

Rice cooker

Shamoji

Suribachi

Dishes Ramen Soups and stews

Soups and stews

Sushi and sashimi ingredients

Chinmi

Ichijū-sansai

Itameshi

Omakase

Teppanyaki

Tokusanhin

Teriyaki

Customs and etiquette

Okinawan cuisine

Category

# Yōshoku


In Japanese cuisine, yōshoku (洋食, western food) refers to a style of Western-influenced cooking which originated during the Meiji Restoration. These are primarily Japanized forms of European dishes, often featuring Western names, and usually written in katakana. It is an example of fusion cuisine.

History

At the beginning of the Meiji Restoration (1868–1912), national seclusion was eliminated and the Meiji Emperor declared Western ideas helpful for Japan's future progress. As part of the reforms, the Emperor lifted the ban on red meat and promoted Western cuisine, which was viewed as the cause of the Westerners' greater physical size. Yōshoku thus relies on meat as an ingredient, unlike the typical Japanese cuisine at the time. Additionally, many of the Westerners who started to live in Japan at that time refused to touch traditional Japanese food (washoku), so their private Japanese chefs learned how to cook them Western-style cuisine, often with a Japanese spin.

The first recorded print appearance of the term "yōshoku" dates back to 1872. In the past, the term was for Western cuisine, regardless of the country of origin (as opposed to French, English, Italian, etc.), but people became aware of differences between European cuisines and yōshoku in the 1980s, due to the opening of many European restaurants serving more authentically European (non-Japanized) food.

In 1872, Japanese writer Kanagaki Robun (仮名垣魯文) popularized the related term seiyō ryōri in his Seiyō Ryōritsū ('western food handbook'). Seiyō ryōri mostly refers to French and Italian cooking while Yōshoku is a generic term for Japanese dishes inspired by Western food that are distinct from the washoku tradition. Another difference is that seiyō ryōri is eaten using a knife and fork, while Yōshoku is eaten using chopsticks and a spoon.

Earlier dishes of European origin – notably those imported from Portugal in the 16th century such as tempura (inspired by the fritter-cooking techniques of the Portuguese residing in Nagasaki in the 16th century), are not, strictly speaking, part of yoshoku, which refers only to Meiji-era food. However, some yōshoku restaurants serve tempura.

Yōshoku varies in how Japanized it is: while yōshoku may be eaten with a spoon (as in カレー, karē, curry), paired with bread or a plate of rice (called ライス, raisu) and written in katakana to reflect that they are foreign words, some have become sufficiently Japanized that they are often treated as normal Japanese food (washoku), served alongside rice and miso soup, and eaten with chopsticks. An example of the latter is katsu, which is eaten with chopsticks and a bowl of white rice (ご飯; gohan), and may even be served with traditional Japanese sauces such as ponzu or grated daikon, rather than katsu sauce. Reflecting this, katsu is often written in hiragana as かつ, as a native Japanese word, rather than as カツ (from カツレツ, katsuretsu, 'cutlet').

Another more contemporary term for Western food is mukokuseki ("no-nationality" cuisine).

Overview

Jihei Ishii, author of the 1898 The Japanese Complete Cookbook (日本料理法大全), states that: "Yōshoku is Japanese food."[citation needed]

Created in the Meiji era, it may not have as long a history as washoku (Japanese traditional dishes), yet there are yōshoku dishes which have themselves become traditional Japanese fare.[citation needed] Yōshoku is considered a field of Japanese cuisine, including such typical adapted meals as katsu, beefsteak, korokke, naporitan, Hayashi rice and curry rice (Japanese curry). Many of these meals are even assumed to be washoku.[citation needed]

Yōshoku began by altering Western recipes for lack of information about foreign countries' cuisine, or adaptions to suit local tastes, but over time, yōshoku also evolved dishes that were not at all based on European foods, such as chicken rice and omurice (omelette rice). Elaborate sauces were largely eliminated, replaced with tomato ketchup, demi-glace sauce and Worcestershire sauce.[citation needed]

During Japan's modernization, yōshoku was often too expensive for the common man. But after World War II, ingredients for yōshoku became more widely available and its popularity grew.[citation needed]

A yōshokuya (洋食屋) is a restaurant where yōshoku dishes are served. During Japan's rapid economic growth people began eating yōshoku in department store restaurants, but now family restaurants such as Denny's and Saizeriya are considered essential yōshoku establishments. In addition, there are also a number of upscale yōshoku restaurants in Japan, such as Shiseido Parlor in Ginza and Taimeiken in Nihonbashi (two areas of Tokyo).[citation needed]

Typical yōshoku dishes

Castella

Stew Hayashi rice Cream stew Nikujaga 肉じゃが

Hayashi rice

Cream stew

Nikujaga 肉じゃが

Korokke

Chicken nanban (チキン南蛮, chikin nanban): fried chicken seasoned with vinegar and tartar sauce

Piroshiki

Breaded dishes (furai) Kaki furai (カキフライ): fried oysters Ebi furai (エビフライ): fried shrimp Aji furai (アジフライ): fried Japanese horse mackerel

Kaki furai (カキフライ): fried oysters

Ebi furai (エビフライ): fried shrimp

Aji furai (アジフライ): fried Japanese horse mackerel

Beef steak (ビーフステーキ, Bīfusutēki): Steak with Japanese-style sauce

Meuniere

Spaghetti Naporitan: Ketchup spaghetti with sausage and vegetables Tarako spaghetti (たらこスパゲッティ, tarako spaghetti): Japanese tarako (cod roe) spaghetti Japanese mushroom spaghetti (和風きのこスパゲッティ, Wafu kinoko spaghetti): Japanese style soy sauce and mushroom spaghetti Ankake spaghetti (あんかけスパゲッティ, Ankake spaghetti): this dish is mainly eaten in Nagoya. Spaghetti with a spicy sticky sauce. Nattō spaghetti (納豆スパゲティ, Nattō spaghetti) Edible wild plants spaghetti (山菜スパゲティ, Sansai spaghetti) Tuna spaghetti (ツナスパゲティ, Tuna spaghetti) mizore (grated radish) spaghetti (みぞれスパゲティ, Mizore spaghetti): mizore had come from the name of the Japanese wet snow

Naporitan: Ketchup spaghetti with sausage and vegetables

Tarako spaghetti (たらこスパゲッティ, tarako spaghetti): Japanese tarako (cod roe) spaghetti

Japanese mushroom spaghetti (和風きのこスパゲッティ, Wafu kinoko spaghetti): Japanese style soy sauce and mushroom spaghetti

Ankake spaghetti (あんかけスパゲッティ, Ankake spaghetti): this dish is mainly eaten in Nagoya. Spaghetti with a spicy sticky sauce.

Nattō spaghetti (納豆スパゲティ, Nattō spaghetti)

Edible wild plants spaghetti (山菜スパゲティ, Sansai spaghetti)

Tuna spaghetti (ツナスパゲティ, Tuna spaghetti)

mizore (grated radish) spaghetti (みぞれスパゲティ, Mizore spaghetti): mizore had come from the name of the Japanese wet snow

Cutlet Tonkatsu Fried chicken (chicken katsu) Beef cutlet (beef katsu) Ham katsu Menchi katsu Turkish rice (torukorice): Pilaf flavored with curry, naporitan spaghetti and tonkatsu with demi-glace sauce

Tonkatsu

Fried chicken (chicken katsu)

Beef cutlet (beef katsu)

Ham katsu

Menchi katsu

Turkish rice (torukorice): Pilaf flavored with curry, naporitan spaghetti and tonkatsu with demi-glace sauce

Omurice

Steak Hamburg

Hamburg

Mikkusu sando (ミックスサンド) – assorted sandwiches, especially egg salad, ham, and cutlet

Gratin

Doria: Roasted pilaf with béchamel sauce and cheese

Crème caramel: Also known as Purin in Japanese.

See also

List of common yōshoku dishes

Hong Kong-style Western cuisine, a similar phenomenon in Hong Kong

Haipai cuisine, a similar phenomenon in Shanghai

References

^ Farley, David (15 July 2020). "Japan's surprising 'Western' cuisine". BBC News. Retrieved 15 July 2020.

^ Nancy K. Stalker (2018). Devouring Japan: Global Perspectives on Japanese Culinary Identity. Oxford University Press. p. 171. ISBN 978-0-19-024040-0.

^ a b Norimitsu Onishi (2008-03-26). "Spaghetti Stir-Fry and Hambagoo: Japan Looks West". New York Times. Retrieved 2008-09-11.

^ "西洋料理通. 巻上,附録 / 仮名垣魯文 編 ; 暁斎 画". Waseda U.

^ a b Aoki Yuriko (12 November 2019). "Yōshoku: A Japanese Take on Western-Style Cuisine Culture Food and Drink Guide to Japan". nippon.com. Retrieved 12 May 2020.

^ Peter Hum (15 August 2019). "What makes restaurant food 'authentic,' and who gets to decide?". Ottawa Citizen. Retrieved 12 May 2020.

^ Kansai: Rough Guides Snapshot Japan. Penguin. 2014. p. 131. ISBN 978-0-24101417-2.

^ a b c d Robbie Swinnerton (18 November 2014). "Toyoken: Narisawa's take on 'yoshoku' cuisine". The Japan Times. Retrieved 12 May 2020.

^ Levin Tan (26 October 2018). "Memories of meals: RAMEN SHOP and the power of food films". japanesefilmfestival.net. Retrieved 12 May 2020.

^ Mina Holland (7 October 2017). "Masterchef's Tim Anderson's kitchen – and his recipe for chicken katsu curry". The Guardian. Retrieved 12 May 2020.

^ a b Makiko Itoh (16 October 2015). "An idea simmering for centuries: Japanese 'white stew'". The Japan Times. Retrieved 12 May 2020.

^ Makiko Itoh (22 April 2017). "The storied history of the potato in Japanese cooking". The Japan Times. Retrieved 12 May 2020.

^ John Maher (29 August 2017). "The Addictive Animated Food of Miyazaki Films". Thrillist. Retrieved 12 May 2020.

^ Makiko Itoh (20 January 2015). "Spaghetti Napolitan is Japan's unique take on pasta". The Japan Times. Retrieved 12 May 2020.

^ Peter Allen (16 October 2019). "Steak Japanese Style: Chaliapin Steak". onthegas.org. Retrieved 12 May 2020.

^ Karen Barnaby (17 September 2019). "Karen Barnaby: Try a Japanese sando to expand your sandwich repertoire". Vancouver Sun. Retrieved 12 May 2020.

^ Yukari Sakamoto (8 February 2018). "Our Complete Yoshoku Guide". metropolisjapan.com. Retrieved 12 May 2020.

# Korean Chinese cuisine


Korean Chinese cuisine (Korean: 중화요리; Hanja: 中華料理), also known as Sino–Korean cuisine, is a hybrid cuisine developed by the ethnic Chinese in Korea.

Despite originally being derived from Chinese cuisine, Korean-Chinese cuisine consists of unique dishes with Korean flavours and ingredients, making it a hybrid cuisine.

In South Korea, the food is usually delivered. In other parts of the world, Korean Chinese dishes are typically served in Korean restaurants as well as in Chinese restaurants whose owners are immigrants from Korea or if they are from a Chinese–Korean family.

Characteristics

Bap Bibimbap Bokkeum-bap Gukbap

Bibimbap

Bokkeum-bap

Gukbap

Juk Mieum

Guksu Naengmyeon

Naengmyeon

Jangajji

Jeotgal

Kimchi Baek-kimchi Dongchimi Kkakdugi Nabak-kimchi

Baek-kimchi

Dongchimi

Kkakdugi

Nabak-kimchi

Soups and stews

Jeongol

Jijimi

Jjigae

Banchan

Bokkeum

Buchimgae Jeon

Jokpyeon

Pyeonyuk

Gwapyeon

Jeonggwa

Kkultarae

Suksilgwa

Yakbap

Yeotgangjeong

Yugwa Gangjeong Hangwa

Gangjeong

Hangwa

Yumilgwa Mandugwa Taraegwa Yakgwa

Mandugwa

Taraegwa

Yakgwa

Baekseolgi

Bupyeon

Gyeongdan

Injeolmi

Jeolpyeon

Jeungpyeon

Mujigae-tteok

Siru-tteok

Songpyeon

Hwachae

Sikhye

Sul (alcoholic drinks)

Sujeonggwa

Doenjang

Ganjang Gukganjang Eoganjang

Gukganjang

Eoganjang

Gochujang

Cheong

Mustard sauce

Oil Perilla oil Sesame oil

Perilla oil

Sesame oil

Ssamjang

Vinegar Persimmon vinegar Rice vinegar

Persimmon vinegar

Rice vinegar

Dolsot

Ttukbaegi

Gamasot

Kimchi Field Museum

Kimchi refrigerator

List of Korean dishes

North Korean cuisine

Korean regional cuisine

Korean Chinese cuisine

Korean royal court cuisine

Korean barbecue

Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Korean-Chinese cuisine was first developed during the 19th century in the port city of Incheon, where most of the ethnic Chinese population of Korea lived. Due to geographic proximity and the demographics of the Korean Chinese population, most Korean Chinese dishes are derived from (or influenced by) northern, eastern and northeastern Chinese dishes mostly from Shandong, where the majority of the earlier Chinese immigrants in Korea were from.

Dishes

Three primary Korean-Chinese dishes are served in most Korean Chinese restaurants in South Korea and elsewhere:

Jajangmyeon (짜장면), often referred to as "black bean noodles", is a noodle dish topped with a thick sauce made of sweet bean sauce (chunjang), diced pork or seafood, and vegetables. Derived from the Shandong zhájiàngmiàn (炸醬麵), Korean jajangmyeon is distinct from the zhájiàngmiàn dishes served in China.

Jjamppong (짬뽕) is a spicy noodle soup flavored with vegetables, meat or seafood, and chili oil. The dish derived from the Shandong chǎomǎmiàn (炒碼麵) and its name derived from chanpon, a Japanese Chinese dish derived from the Fujian mènmiàn (燜麵). The addition of chili powder (gochugaru) and chili oil to jjamppong began during the 1960s.

Tangsuyuk (탕수육) is a Korean version of a sweet and sour meat dish derived from the Cantonese tòhngchouyuhk (糖醋肉). It can be made with pork or beef, coated with corn- or potato starch or glutinous rice flour. The dish is served with a sweet-and-sour sauce typically made with soy sauce, vinegar, sugar, corn or potato starch, and fruits and vegetables such as carrots, cucumbers, onions, wood ear mushrooms, apples, and pineapples.

Other dishes often served in Korean-Chinese restaurants include:

Jungguk-naengmyeon (중국냉면; 中國冷麵; lit. 'Chinese cold noodles'), is enjoyed during the summer. Jungguk-naengmyeon is made with junghwa-myeon (Chinese noodles), shredded five-spice-marinated beef or pork (五香醬肉), cucumber, crab sticks, jellyfish and a fried egg in a cold chicken broth seasoned with soy sauce and spices. A sauce, mixed with mustard and peanut sauce, gives it a nutty, spicy flavor.

Kkanpunggi (깐풍기, derived from gàn pēng jī (乾烹鷄), fried chicken (with or without bones) glazed with a sweet, spicy sauce

Kkanpung saeu (깐풍새우): Deep-fried, breaded sweet-and-sour shrimp, with a mild spiciness distinct from tangsuyuk, tangsu saeu and stir-fried Kung Pao shrimp (宮寶蝦) served in Chinese restaurants. Kkanpung saeu is served with a sweet sauce, peas, carrots, green onions and red chilli peppers.

Rajogi (라조기, derived from làjiāojī (辣椒鷄), similar to the Sichuan laziji, a Chinese chili chicken dish

Udong (우동), a noodle soup similar to jjamppong but with non-spicy white soup, derived from Shandong-style dǎlǔmiàn (打滷麵) and not related to either Japanese udon or Korean-style udon (also called udong in Korean) despite the name. In Korean, udong refers to several types of noodle dishes (typically noodle soups) and thus the term used here is non-specific and not exclusive to Korean Chinese cuisine.

Ulmyeon (울면), similar to udon, consists of wheat-flour noodles, chopped vegetables and seafood in a chowder-like broth thickened with cornstarch. It is derived from a Chinese dish, wēnlŭmiàn (溫滷麵).

Dumplings are also served at Korean-Chinese restaurants, usually a pan-fried cross between Chinese jiaozi and Korean mandu. Dried red chili flakes are provided to season food or mixed with soy sauce.

Koreans traditionally eat Chinese food with a side dish of danmuji (yellow pickled radishes) and raw onion dipped in unfried chunjang. Kimchi, a Korean staple, is also eaten with Korean-Chinese food.

Hotteok is a Korean-Chinese food item that is now commonly sold as a street food.

Gallery

Giseu-myeon (shredded chicken soup)

Gun-mandu (pan-fried dumplings)

Jajangmyeon (black sauce noodles)

Keurim-saeu (cream shrimp)

Kkanpunggi (spicy garlic fried chicken)

Kkansyo-saeu (chili shrimp)

Menbosya (shrimp toast)

Nanja-wanseu (meatballs)

Nurungji-tang (scorched rice soup)

Ohyang-jangyuk (steamed five spice pork slices)

Oksusu-onmyeon (corn noodle soup)

Tangsuyuk (sweet and sour pork)

Jungguk-naengmyeon (Chinese cold noodle soup)

Palbochae (eight treasure dish)

Rajogi (chili chicken)

Chinese-style udong (seafood noodle soup)

Ulmyeon (noodles and seafood in egg soup)

Yangjangpi (seafood salad with hot mustard sauce)

Yuringi (fried chicken with scallions in hot and sour soy sauce)

Yusanseul (stir-fried three ingredient dish)

See also

South Korea portal

Taiwan portal

Food portal

Chinese people in Korea

American Chinese cuisine

Japanese Chinese cuisine

References

^ a b c d Lee, Cecilia Hae-Jin (2 September 2015). "A Chinese-Korean mashup? Here are 5 restaurants to try in L.A." Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 20 September 2017.

^ Kayal, Michele (14 January 2014). "Traditional Chinese New Year fare symbolic". Associated Press. Retrieved 18 April 2017 – via Lubbock Avalanche-Journal.

^ a b Chung, Paul (24 July 2013). "Korean Chinese Food: The Must-Try Fusion Cuisine You've Never Heard of". Asia Society. Retrieved 1 March 2017.

^ a b 이, 성희 (17 March 2017). [명사 70인과의 동행] (38) "중국 초마면 본 일본인이 짬뽕이라 불러"…한국 근대를 맛보다. Kyunghyang Shinmun (in Korean). Retrieved 20 April 2017.

^ Seo, Won-ye (서원예), (2009-06-12)냉면만 먹자니 지겹죠…색다른 '여름麵' 어때요 (in Korean), Hankguk Gyeongju

^ "udong" 우동. Standard Korean Language Dictionary. National Institute of Korean Language. Archived from the original on 24 February 2017. Retrieved 15 March 2017.

Algeria

Morocco

Cape Verde

Nigeria

Senegal

Ethiopia

Tanzania

Uganda

Cameroon

Democratic Republic of Congo

Republic of Congo

Angola

Botswana

Lesotho

Madagascar

Malawi

Mauritius

Mozambique

Namibia

Réunion1

Seychelles

South Africa

Zambia

Zimbabwe

Belize

Caribbean Chinese cuisine

Dominican Republic

Guyana

Jamaica

Puerto Rico cuisine

cuisine

Suriname

Trinidad and Tobago

Canada cuisine from Hong Kong from Taiwan British Columbia (Vancouver) Toronto

cuisine

from Hong Kong

from Taiwan

British Columbia (Vancouver)

Toronto

Mexico

United States American-born Chinese cuisine Chinese American church from Hong Kong from Taiwan from Malaysia from Singapore Fuzhounese History Tibetan Hakka Hoklo by city and state

American-born Chinese

cuisine

Chinese American church

from Hong Kong

from Taiwan

from Malaysia

from Singapore

Fuzhounese

History

Tibetan

by city and state

Costa Rica

Nicaragua

Panama

Argentina

Brazil

Chinese Latin American cuisine

Guyana

Peru Chifa

Suriname

Uruguay

Venezuela

Kazakhstan

Kyrgyzstan

Japan Cuisine Shippoku

Cuisine

Shippoku

Korea cuisine

cuisine

Mongolia

Brunei

Cambodia cuisine Hokkien

cuisine

Hokkien

Timor-Leste

Indonesia Benteng Chinese cuisine Peranakan Chinese Bangka-Belitung Bali Maluku

Benteng Chinese

cuisine

Peranakan Chinese

Bangka-Belitung

Maluku

Malaysia cuisine Peranakan / Baba Nyonya / Straits Chinese cuisine Sino-Native

cuisine

Peranakan / Baba Nyonya / Straits Chinese cuisine

cuisine

Sino-Native

Myanmar Kokang Panthay Pashu

Kokang

Panthay

Philippines cuisine Sangley

cuisine

Sangley

Singapore Chinese nationals Straits-Born Chinese

Chinese nationals

Straits-Born Chinese

Thailand Chin Haw Phuket Baba

Chin Haw

Phuket Baba

Vietnam Minh Hương Sán Dìu Ngái Hoa Nùng

Minh Hương

Sán Dìu

Hoa Nùng

Bangladesh

India cuisine

cuisine

Pakistan cuisine

cuisine

Sri Lanka

Israel

Turkey

United Arab Emirates

Denmark

Finland

Norway

Sweden

Belgium

France Paris

Germany Nazi era

Nazi era

Ireland

Netherlands

United Kingdom cuisine from Hong Kong London Triads

cuisine

from Hong Kong

London

Triads

Portugal

Bulgaria

Czech Republic

Romania

Russia Soviet deportations

Soviet deportations

Serbia

Turkey

Australia cuisine restaurants Chinese Methodist Church in Australia Hong Kong Australians Taiwanese Australians

cuisine

restaurants

Chinese Methodist Church in Australia

Hong Kong Australians

Taiwanese Australians

Hawaii

New Zealand cuisine

cuisine

Papua New Guinea

List of British Chinese people

List of Chinese diaspora people

List of Chinese Americans

List of foreign politicians of Chinese descent

List of heads of state and government of Chinese descent

List of naturalised Olympic table tennis players from China

List of Malaysians of Chinese descent

All-China Federation of Returned Overseas Chinese

Association of Chinese Professionals

Asiatic Exclusion League

Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association

Chinese Congress on World Evangelization

Chinese Empire Reform Association

Chinese Hand Laundry Alliance

Chinese Music Society of North America

Chinese Students and Scholars Association

Citizen Power Initiatives for China

Confucius Institute Criticism

Criticism

Eng Suey Sun Association

Free Tibet

Gin Family Association

Hanban

Lung Kong Tin Yee Association

List of Chinese American associations

Overseas Chinese Affairs Office

Overseas Chinese banks

Overseas Chinese History Museum of China

Overseas Chinese University

Overseas Community Affairs Council

Tong Tong Wars

Tong Wars

Tongmenghui

Chinese as a foreign language

Hwa Chong Institution

Malaysia

Philippines

Taiwan

United States Association of Chinese Schools

Association of Chinese Schools

Anti-Chinese sentiment

Aid Refugee Chinese Intellectuals

Chinese Bridge

Chinese emigration

Chinese restaurant List

Chinatown Lists of Chinatowns Social issues

Lists of Chinatowns

Social issues

Chinese intelligence activity abroad

Chinese police overseas service stations

Chinese New Year

Dragon boat Dragon Boat Festival

Dragon Boat Festival

Jook-sing

Kongsi

Language and overseas Chinese communities

Legislation on Chinese Indonesians

Love Boat (study tour)

Operation Fox Hunt

Operation Sky Net

Qingtianese diaspora

Xenophobia and racism related to the COVID-19 pandemic

Snakehead

Transnational lawfare by China

Transnational repression by China

Yellow Peril

# Hot and sour noodles


Hot and sour noodles (Chinese: 酸辣粉; pinyin: suānlàfěn) is a dish which comes from Sichuan, China and is a popular part of Sichuan cuisine. The noodles are made from starch derived from peas, potato, sweet potato, or rice.

History

It is unclear when and who invented the dish, which had been very popular in at least the Qing dynasty[citation needed], and was initially mostly served as street food in Sichuan.

Characteristics

Its unique flavor combines the sourness from Chinese rice vinegar with the spiciness from chili pepper oil. Ground toasted peanuts and soybeans on top of the noodles add crispness. Besides rice vinegar, chili oil and peanuts/soybeans, other ingredients include sugar, salt, soy sauce, scallion pieces, and smashed garlic.

Preparation

The preparation for hot and sour noodles is relatively easy and quick. For street vendors in Sichuan, it only takes 2–3 minutes to serve the noodles after taking customers' orders. Noodles are simmered in boiling water, and then added to a bowl in which rice vinegar, soy sauce, salt, sugar and chili oil have been placed. The dish is garnished with peanuts or soybeans and scallion pieces on top of the noodles.

See also

Hot and sour soup

References

Fuchsia Dunlop. Land of Plenty : A Treasury of Authentic Sichuan Cooking. New York: W.W. Norton, 2003. ISBN 0393051773.

Fuchsia Dunlop. Shark's Fin and Sichuan Pepper: A Sweet-Sour Memoir of Eating in China. (New York: Norton, 2008). ISBN 9780393066579. The author's experience and observations, especially in Sichuan.

Ants climbing a tree

Bingfen

Laziji (chicken with chili peppers)

Dan dan noodles

Doubanjiang

Douhua

Fuqi feipian

Guaiwei

Hot and sour noodle

Chongqing hot pot

Hot pot

Kung Pao chicken

Leng chi tu

Malatang

Mala sauce

Maocai

Mapo tofu

Pao cai

Shuizhu

Sichuan pepper

Suanla chaoshou

Tuotuorou

Twice-cooked pork

Wonton

Wuliangye Yibin

Yanbangcai

Yuxiang

Zajiangmian

Zha cai

Zhangcha duck

Hong Kong cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

# Xiaolongbao


Media: Xiaolongbao

siu2 lung4 maan4 tau4

siu2 lung4 maan6 tau4

[siw˧˥ lʊŋ˩ man˩ tʰɐw˩]

[siw˧˥ lʊŋ˩ man˨ tʰɐw˩]

Xiaolongbao (Chinese: 小籠包; lit. 'little basket bun'; IPA: /ˈʃaʊlɒŋˌbaʊ/) is a type of Chinese tangbao (汤包), traditionally prepared in a xiaolong, a small bamboo steaming basket. The xiaolongbao originates from the city of Changzhou in Jiangsu province, and is an iconic dish of Jiangnan cuisine.

Different cities across the Jiangnan region have varying styles of xiaolongbao. Outside of China, the Nanxiang xiaolongbao associated with Shanghai is the most well known. In the Shanghainese language, they are known as siaulon moedeu or xiaolong mantou, as Wu Chinese-speaking peoples use the traditional definition of mantou, which refers to both filled and unfilled buns. The Suzhou and Wuxi styles are larger (sometimes twice as large as a Nanxiang xiaolongbao) and have sweeter fillings. The Nanjing style is smaller with an almost translucent skin and less meat.

In English, the xiaolongbao are often referred to as "soup dumplings", but "soup dumpling" in Chinese may translate to the broader culinary category known as tangbao, which includes the xiaolongbao and other related dishes, such as the Kaifeng tangbao.

Origins

Xiaolongbao originated in Changzhou, Jiangsu province. It evolved from the guantangbao (soup-filled dumplings/buns) of Kaifeng, Henan province, which was the capital city of the Northern Song Dynasty (960–1127).

There are numerous styles of xiaolongbao in Jiangnan cuisine. Shanghai-style xiaolongbao originated in Nanxiang, which was a neighboring village of Shanghai in Jiangsu that eventually became an outer suburb of Shanghai's Jiading District. From there xiaolongbao became popular in downtown Shanghai and promptly spread outward.

Xiaolongbao in Taiwan

The queue outside Nanxiang Bun Shop in Shanghai

Making xiaolongbao at Nanxiang Mantou Dian store in Roppongi Hills, Japan

Ingredients

Chinese buns, in general, may be divided into two types, depending on the degree of leavening of the flour skin.[verification needed] Buns can be made with leavened or unleavened dough. Those made with unleavened dough use clear water for mixing; the skin is thin and the fillings large. It is frequently made in Nanxiang but is imitated elsewhere, called “Xiang-style”. Steamed buns made with raised flour are seen throughout China and are what is usually referred to as mantou. Steamed xiaolongbao made with partially raised flour are more commonly seen in the south. This means that their skin is tender, smoother, and somewhat translucent, rather than being white and fluffy. As is traditional for buns of various sizes in the Jiangnan region, xiaolongbao is pinched at the top prior to steaming, so the skin has a circular cascade of ripples around the crown.[failed verification]

Xiaolongbao are traditionally filled with pork. More modern innovations include other meats, seafood, shrimp, crab meat, and vegetarian fillings. Some restaurants offer creative fillings including sea urchin, foie gras, cheese, garlic, and truffle as well as dessert fillings like yam, red bean, chocolate, taro, and black sesame.

Soup dumplings are created by wrapping solid meat aspic inside the skin alongside the meat filling. Heat from steaming then melts the gelatin-gelled aspic into soup. In modern times, refrigeration has made the process of making tangbao during hot weather easier, since making gelled aspic is much more difficult at room temperature.

Serving

Xiaolongbao are traditionally eaten for breakfast. The buns are served hot in the bamboo baskets in which they were steamed, usually on a bed of dried leaves or a paper mat, although some restaurants now use napa cabbage instead. The buns are usually dipped in Zhenjiang vinegar with chili crisp.

Traditionally, tangbao soup dumplings are a kind of dim sum (à la carte item) or xiaochi (snack). The buns are usually dipped in Zhenjiang vinegar with ginger slivers. They are traditionally served with a clear soup on the side.[unreliable source?] Around Shanghai, "tangbao" may be eaten throughout the day, although usually not for breakfast. They form part of a traditional Jiangnan-style morning tea (早茶). In Guangdong and the Western world, it is sometimes served as a dish during Cantonese tea time. Frozen tangbao are now mass-produced and a popular frozen food sold worldwide.

Restaurants serve xiaolongbao hot in bamboo steamers, sometimes with lettuce or parchment paper at the base to prevent them from sticking to the bottom. There are various methods of eating xiaolongbao. To avoid spilling the soup, one way to eat the bun is to hold the bun with the eater's spoon and bite a hole to suck the soup before eating the remainder, while others may place the bun and any condiments in the spoon and ingest it in the mouth at one time.

Served as breakfast

In vinegar sauce

With wontons

In a bamboo steamer

Changzhou

The modern form of xiaolongbao originated during Qing dynasty. A place named Yinggui Teahouse is where people in Changzhou go to have xiaolongbao. The buns from Changzhou are known for its thin wraps, and the soup that spills out after each bite. Among the types, crab-filled xiaolongbao is the most well known type in Changzhou, and are eaten after the Mid-Autumn Festival.

Shanghai

In Shanghai, xiaolongbao are usually filled with pork; crabmeat and shrimp are also present but in the minority.

Tianjin

Goubuli baozi are a brand of tangbao created in 1858 by a restaurant in Tianjin.

Kaifeng

Kaifeng xiaolongbao, created during the Song dynasty, is also known as soup-filled xiaolongbao. Many famous cooks created their own ways of making soup-filled dumplings in Kaifeng and improved the techniques throughout history. Kaifeng xiaolongbao looks like a "lantern" when they are lifted, and a "flower" when it sits in the steaming basket.

Hong Kong

Hong Kong xiaolongbao look like Changzhou xiaolongbao but have a slightly spicy taste, due to the addition of ginger and sometimes spring onion in the filling. The wrapper is chewier and harder than the normal ones. Despite the difference, it is labelled as Shanghai xiaolongbao.

See also

China portal

Food portal

Din Tai Fung

Dumpling

Jiaozi

Khinkali

List of steamed foods

List of buns

Momo (food)

Shanghainese cuisine

Shengjian mantou

Siopao

Salteña, another dumpling with a gelatin-based liquid filling

Citations

^ a b Food Lover's Guide to the World: Experience the Great Global Cuisines. Lonely Planet Food and Drink. Lonely Planet Publications. 2014. p. 29. ISBN 978-1-74360-581-3. Retrieved November 5, 2016.

^ In ancient times, stuffing in the dough was called steamed buns. See Zeng Weihua, "Ancient Mantou", "Journal of Shanghai Normal University (Philosophy and Social Sciences Edition)" No. 2, 1995, p. 157

^ "[How to]: Eat Xiaolongbao Like a Scientist | SmartShanghai". www.smartshanghai.com. Retrieved 2020-01-27.

^ "Shanghai's 7 Essential Soup Dumplings: Xiaolongbao". Xtreme Foodies - The world's Essential Eats curated by local food experts. 2015-07-09. Retrieved 2020-01-27.

^ a b "Dumplings, a dish on the to-do list". SHINE. Retrieved 2020-01-27.

^ "Food Wars: Xiaolongbao Edition". GOOD. 2016-11-17. Retrieved 2020-01-27.

^ a b "Shanghai Dining – Shanghai Snacks: Nanxiang Steamed Stuffed Bun". China Internet Information Center. July 18, 2012. Retrieved 10 February 2013.

^ From the Annals of Jiading (a district in Shanghai)

^ "Chinese Steamed Soup Dumplings (Xiao Long Bao) Recipe". SideChef. Retrieved 2024-11-09.

^ "Menu | 鼎泰豐 Din Tai Fung". 2022-04-05. Retrieved 2025-01-21.

^ "Din Tai Fung Just Launched a New Dessert Xiao Long Bao". SPOT.PH. Retrieved 2025-11-26.

^ Bilow, Rochelle (2015-04-21). "DIY Dim Sum: How to Make Authentic Soup Dumplings at Home". Bon Appétit. Retrieved 2024-11-09.

^ Reinfrank, Alkira; Chan, Bernice (19 August 2020). "The history of xiaolongbao, or soup dumplings: from the outskirts of Shanghai to popular snack loved all over the world". South China Morning Post. Retrieved 6 February 2025. Xiaolongbao are delicate parcels served piping hot in a small bamboo steamer.

^ "Dumpling Sauces". Jinlan Wenhua. Retrieved 2024-11-09.

^ Shal (2017-06-12). "Cantonese Morning Tea". Life Of Shal. Retrieved 2024-11-09.

^ Lin, Su-Jit (2023-08-04). "How to Eat Soup Dumplings, According to Chefs Who Make Them". Reader's Digest. Retrieved 2025-11-26.

^ Pang, Kevin (2018-07-29). "The Correct Way To Eat Xiao Long Bao, The World's Most Magnificent Soup Dumplings". The Takeout. Retrieved 2025-11-26.

^ 小籠包:歷史文化,各地版本,常州小籠包,無錫小籠包,上海小籠包,天津小籠包,開封小_中文百科全書. www.newton.com.tw (in Chinese (Taiwan)). Retrieved 2022-11-23.

^ "【步骤图】正宗上海小笼包(更新版)的做法_正宗上海小笼包(更新版)的做法步骤_江南小吃_下厨房". m.xiachufang.com. Retrieved 2026-03-16.

^ 狗不理包子. www.tjdag.gov.cn (in Chinese). Archived from the original on 2022-11-24. Retrieved 2022-11-24.

^ 郑州食尚香 (2016-11-01). 开封小笼包是怎么来的？小笼包的特色吃法你知道吗？-食尚香郑州小吃培训学校. m.ssxmyxc.com (in Chinese). Archived from the original on 2022-11-24. Retrieved 2022-11-24.

^ "Panasonic - 食譜". www.panasonic.hk. Retrieved 2026-03-16.

Century egg

Cifantuan

Eight treasure duck

Eight treasure rice

Hairy crab

Jiaozi

Lion's head

Nian gao

Qingtuan

Red braised pork belly

Shanghai cumian

Shanghai fried noodles

Shengjian mantou

Shumai

Song gao

Stinky tofu

Tangbao

Tea egg

Wonton

Xiaolongbao

Yan Du Xian

Youtiao

Beijing cuisine

Cantonese cuisine

Hong Kong cuisine

Macanese cuisine

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Bing Jianbing

Jianbing

Cha siu baau

Cong you bing

Dalieba

Roujiamo

Guokui

Hujiao bing

Kompyang

Laobing

Mandarin roll

Mantou

Sanchuisanda

Shaobing

Shengjian mantou

Xiaolongbao

Youtazi

Recipes on WikiBooks

Category:Chinese breads

Food portal

China portal

Apple dumpling

Chicken and dumplings

Crab Rangoon

Knoephla

Manapua

Poutine râpée

Rivels

Bolinho de chuva

Chapalele

Corunda

Empanada

Hallaca

Nuegado

Pamonha

Pantruca

Sorrentinos

Tamale

Ducana

Pasteles

Aushak

Fish patty

Gujhia

Hoentay

Kozhukkatta

Lukhmi

Maroi bori thongba

Nevryo

Munthiri kothu

Samosa

Yomari

Chuchvara

Boraki

Hingel

Khinkali

Kubbeh

Qatayef

Sambusak

Shishbarak

Tatar böreği

Pelmeni

Pyanse

Borș de burechiușe

Chebureki

Colțunași

Halušky

Kalduny (Kundumy)

Kreplach

Matzah ball

Pelmeni

Pirozhki

Scovardă

Varenyky

Agnolotti Pavese Piedmontese

Pavese

Piedmontese

Cappelletti

Casoncelli

Casunziei

Cjarsons

Gnocchi

Mezzelune

Ravioli

Sacchettoni

Tortellini

Tortelloni

Black dumplings

Bryndzové halušky

Capuns

Dampfnudel

Germknödel

Halušky

Idrijski žlikrofi

Kluski

Knedle

Knödel

Kopytka

Maultasche

Mohnnudel

Pampuchy

Pickert

Pierogi

Marillenknödel

Schlutzkrapfen

Schupfnudel

Shlishkes

Silesian dumplings

Strapačky

Barbajuan

Rissole

Bedfordshire clanger

Cepelinai

Kroppkaka

Pitepalt

Raspeball

Kenkey

Sambusa

Dim sim

History

Politics

Economy

Cities

Wudang Mountains

Jingshan Mountains

Daba Mountains

Shennongjia

Wu Mountains

Dabie Mountains

Mufu Mountains

Yangtze River

Han River

Three Gorges

Wuhan University Ω

Huazhong University of Science and Technology Ω

Wuhan University of Technology Ω

China University of Geosciences Ω

Central China Agricultural University Ω

Central China Normal University Ω

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law Ω

South-Central University for Nationalities

Wuchang University of Technology

Chu Culture

Han opera

Nine-headed Bird

Wuhan duck

Soup dumpling

Re gan mian

Jingzhou

Xianling Tomb (in Zhongxiang)

Three Gorges

Yellow Crane Tower

Hubei Provincial Museum

Underground Project 131

Category

Commons

# Xuzhou cuisine


The local cuisine in Xuzhou is a blend of many of the flavours of northern and southern China, as a result of the location of Xuzhou. It is known for a number of dishes, including various dog meat dishes.

Xuzhou's cuisine tends to be high in fat and salt. Restaurants use a lot of oil and salt in their cooking, including vegetable dishes and soups. Meat is often very fatty, and it tends to be chopped up with the bones still in it. In the history of Jiangsu diet culture, Xuzhou cuisine not only occupies an extremely important position but also is one of the birthplaces of the whole Chinese food culture. It reflected the earliest Chinese cooking theory and witnessed the formation of the Chinese cuisine.

List of notable dishes

Others include:

Ground pan is originating from the traditional cooking method of farmers of Xuzhou. By putting chicken, fish and other ingredients into an iron pan and cooking it on an oven with wood. When the water in the pan boils, then sticking the bread on the pan edge. It is similar to braising chicken/ fish in sauce. The taste is salty and spicy.

Luomo (baked bread) is made by the unfermented flour. With a thickness of about 0.1 cm, it can be rolled into a kind of snack or subsidiary foodstuff. It is better to eat with Sangza, which is a kind of fried food and similar to the crisp noodle.

Lamb Soup is usually served during the Fu Yang Festival.

Notes and references

^ 飠它. The character may not display properly depending on system.

^ 饣它. The character may not display properly depending on system.

References

^ ""蛙鱼"考略(in Chinese)". Archived from the original on 2016-12-25. Retrieved 2016-12-25.

Bibliography

Berry, Chris (November 2003). "Chinese Food Culture Today". Gastronomica. 3 (4): 99–101. doi:10.1525/gfc.2003.3.4.99.

“From Xuzhou into the South.” TWIF World Indoor Championship 2018

Hom, Ken (5 May 2015). "Chinese food culture: Influences from within and without". Asia Dialogue.

Wenlu, RunSheng. "Wa Yu’ Research." 彭城周末--徐州日报社多媒体数字报, 04 Feb. 2012

Wu, Xinhai. “Xuzhou Cuisine.” JSCchina, 14 Dec. 2011, 10:52

Ye Jun (19 May 2014). "Xuzhou lightens up on classic cuisine[1]- Chinadaily.com.cn". www.chinadaily.com.cn. China Daily. Retrieved 11 August 2019.

# Haipai cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Haipai cuisine (Chinese: 海派西餐; pinyin: hǎipài xīcān; Wade–Giles: hai3-p'ai4 hsi1-ts'an4) is a Western-style cooking that is unique to Shanghai, China. It absorbs the traditions of several cuisines from other regions of China and of Western cooking, adapting them to suit the local taste according to the features of local ingredients. It is divided into several major types: French, Italian, Russian, British, and German, among which the Russian-type dishes, such as the Shanghai-style borscht (simplified Chinese: 罗宋汤; traditional Chinese: 羅宋湯; pinyin: luó sòng tāng; Wade–Giles: lo2 sung4 t'ang1), receive a great welcome as they are more affordable. Today, the most famous dishes of Haipai cuisine are luó sòng tāng, fried pork chops (breaded cutlet), and Shanghai salad (a variety of Olivier salad). Apart from the above-mentioned common dishes, baked clams, baked crabs, and jin bi duo soup ("million dollar soup") are also popular among the Haipai dishes.

For a hundred years since it opened to foreign traders, Shanghai has witnessed the increasing popularity of Haipai cuisine. However, since China began to implement the reform and opening up in 1978, an increasing number of authentic Western restaurants set up in Shanghai. As a result, the number of Haipai restaurants gradually declined, and only a few are left by now. But luó sòng tāng and fried pork chops with Worcestershire sauce are still enjoyed and considered to be the flavor of "old Shanghai".

History

After Shanghai opened to outside, Western culture was gradually brought into Shanghai, and West restaurants began to set up in the city. According to documentary records, the first Western restaurant, Xiang Fan, was founded in Fuzhou Road. At that time, Western dishes were also known as "Fan dishes". Although Western food became fashionable, it was still hard for the Chinese people to adapt to some types of Western cooking, such as medium rare beefsteak. As a result, Shanghai Western cuisine absorbed the essence of different Western cooking traditions and gradually formed different styles of food: French, Italian, Russian, British, German style, etc. French-style cuisine focused on fresh materials and exquisite food; British-style cuisine focused on seasoning, and Italian-style cuisine focused on the original flavor, so each has its own characteristics. After the October Revolution in the Soviet Union in 1917, a large wave of Russian white émigrés poured into China, and in particular in Shanghai. They were named luó sòng. The Shanghai Russians opened more than 40 Russian restaurants in the Xiafei Road (Avenue Joffre, now Middle Huaihai Road), in an area which at that time became known as "Little Russia". Their two dishes: borscht and buttered bread (butterbrot) gained a great popularity in Shanghai due to their low price. By the end of 1937, Shanghai had more than 200 Haipai restaurants, most of them were located in Xiafei Road and Fuzhou Road.

The establishment of the People's Republic of China in 1949 was a turning point in the development of Shanghai Western cuisine. A large number of Western-style restaurants closed down during this period, and only 18 restaurants remained in the Huangpu District after adopting the pattern of public-private Joint Management. Besides, due to a shortage of supplies at the time, "going to Western restaurants" was not a common thing for ordinary people. However, the Shanghai people, whether because of love for Western food or memories of the ancient time, still tried by every means to enjoy western food in this difficult era. One way was to use a variety of local ingredients instead of importing Western ingredients, such as using Chinese mitten crabs instead of sea crabs, self-roll soda crackers instead of bread powder, and so on. Western food was completely removed from China after the Cultural Revolution. Back then, the famous Western restaurant known as the Red House (Shanghai) was renamed to the Red Flag Restaurant, and offered Chinese traditional dishes. Since the reform and opening up in China, the number of authentic Chinese restaurants in Shanghai has increased dramatically. On the contrary, the number of Western-style restaurants that offer Haipai dishes have declined gradually, and many Western restaurants shut down in the 1990s.

Traditional dishes

Shanghai-style borscht

Being quite different from its Russian origin, the Chinese-style borscht (Chinese: 罗宋汤; pinyin: luósòng-tāng; lit. 'Russian soup'), originated in Harbin, close to the Russian border in northeast China, and has spread as far as Shanghai and Hong Kong. A Shanghai variety appeared when the Russian emigres settled down in the former French Concession in the early 20th century. The recipe was changed by removing beetroot and using tomato paste to color the soup as well as to add to its sweetness, because Shanghai's climate was bad for planting beets and the soup's original sour taste was alien for the local people. Later, cooks usually fried the tomato paste in oil to reduce its sour taste, then put white sugar in the soup to make it both sour and sweet. Alternatively, pre-sweetened ketchup can be used instead. Likewise, cream is replaced by flour to generate thickness without inducing sourness. Most recipes contain beef and its broth, potatoes, and leaf vegetables; Hongchang sausage and Worcestershire sauce are sometimes added as well. As more people made borscht at home, its recipes changed to please the different tastes of its makers, occasionally taking on the influence of mirepoix or minestrone with the inclusion of carrots, celery, onions, and bay leaves. The soup is often accompanied by rice.

Shanghai-style fried pork chops

The Shanghai-style fried pork chop is a local variety of breaded cutlet. It is particularly popular as street food. Like in tonkatsu, the meat is tenderized and flattened by beating with the back of a knife. The pork chop is coated with bread crumbs before being fried to avoid too greasy, and to have a crispy exterior while maintaining tender inside. Back in the old days when supplies were in short supply in Shanghai, soda crackers were crushed to replace bread crumbs, which produced a different unique flavor. In Shanghai, the pork chop is served with the local là jiàngyóu (Chinese: 辣酱油; lit. 'spicy soy sauce'), a localized version of the British Worcestershire sauce.

Potato salad

Usually known as Shanghai-style salad, the potato salad is a local variety of the Russian Olivier salad. It is made by mixing salad dressing and shredded boiled potatoes and diced sausages. It also goes with minced turnips and diced peas. Nowadays, most people make Shanghai-style salad using ready-made salad dressing bought from supermarkets, while originally the dressing was prepared by patiently mixing salad oil, egg yolks and mayonnaise for a long time.

See also

Yōshoku, Western-influenced cooking in Japan

Cha chaan teng, Western-style cuisine of Hong Kong

References

^ 潘君祥，段炼 (2007). 话说沪商. 中华工商联合出版社. pp. 第136–138页. ISBN 9787801934925. Retrieved 2014-01-02.

^ "《上海通志》>>第十九卷商业服务业>>第十章饮食服务业>>第二节 西菜行业". 上海市地方志办公室. Retrieved 2014-06-11.[permanent dead link]

^ 上海饮食服务业志-饮食业的形成和发展 Archived 2015-09-24 at the Wayback Machine 上海市地方志办公室.

^ "舌尖上的海派西餐". 上海热线. 2012-06-15. Archived from the original on 2013-02-27. Retrieved 2014-02-08.

^ 黄浦区志-西菜、西咖业 Archived 2016-03-04 at the Wayback Machine 上海市地方志办公室.

^ a b "海派西餐和奶油菜心". 经济观察网. 2012-06-08. Archived from the original on 2013-02-27. Retrieved 2014-02-08.

^ 卢湾区志-饮食业 Archived 2016-03-07 at the Wayback Machine 上海市地方志办公室.

^ Burlakoff, Nikolai (2013). "Chapter 3 and 8". The World of Russian Borsch: Explorations of Memory, People, History, Cookbooks & Recipes. North Charleston, SC: Createspace Independent Pub. ISBN 978-1-4840-2740-0.

^ "一百个上海人有一百种罗宋汤" [One hundred types of borscht for one hundred Shanghainese]. 新浪网. 2012-08-20. Retrieved 2014-01-04.

^ 《三联生活周刊》 (2011-07-15). ""混血"的炸猪排". 新华每日电讯. Archived from the original on March 26, 2014.

^ "真实第25小时20130417：我爱海派西餐". 上海电视台纪实频道. 2013-04-17. Archived from the original on 2014-02-21. Retrieved 2014-02-17.

^ 陈丹燕 (2012-06-01). 《上海色拉》. 杭州: 浙江出版联合集团. ISBN 9787533934217.

# Qinghai cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Qinghai cuisine is the regional cooking style of the Han Chinese with distinct influence from the Hui, Monguor people, and Tibetans in the Qinghai province in Northwest China.

Characteristic features

Qinghai is populated by Han Chinese, Hui, Monguor people, and Tibetans developing the regional cuisine to reflect a regional melting pot.

The high altitude and rugged terrain in Qinghai limits the crops that can grow in the region though barley and yaks grow well in the region because of their tolerance to colder climates. Meals are hearty and often use yak products such as their meat and butter. The main sources of meat are beef and mutton.

Sour and spicy, sweet and aromatic, crisp and bitter are the primary flavors of the region.

Historically, the Qinghai and Tibetan regions have shared economic and cultural exchanging making the local cuisines very similar.

Qinghai cuisine shares similarities with neighboring provinces Xinjiang, Tibet, and Gansu.

Notable dishes

See also

Chinese cuisine

Gansu cuisine

Xinjiang cuisine

Tibetan cuisine

References

^ Draven, James (3 February 2018). "Qinghai: Xining local flavour". National Geographic. Retrieved 1 August 2022.

^ "Qinghai Cuisine". China Discover. Retrieved 1 August 2022.

^ "Qinghai Ten Common Dishes Qinghai Local Cuisine Recipes What dishes Qinghai people love to eat". LaiTimes. 26 October 2021. Retrieved 1 August 2022.

^ a b "Qinghai Cuisine". CHINA & ASIA CULTURAL TRAVEL. 19 January 2017. Retrieved 1 August 2022.

^ a b c d "Tibetan Cuisine and Qinghai Cuisine". Cchatty. Retrieved 1 August 2022.

^ "Qinghai Local Cuisine". Xinjiang China Travel. Retrieved 1 August 2022.

^ "Qinghai Food". Xinjiang China Travel. Retrieved 1 August 2022.

# Guilin


# Putian cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Putian cuisine, also known as Henghwa cuisine or Henghua cuisine, is a style of Chinese cuisine originating from the Putian people of Putian, Fujian Province. It is a style of Fujian cuisine.

Since Putian is a coastal area, ingredients such as seaweed, oysters, clams and other seafood are commonly used in Putian cuisine.

Putian cuisine is also eaten by the Chinese diaspora in South-East Asia. The eponymous "Putien" restaurant in Singapore, originally a simple kopitiam, won a Michelin star in 2016 and has since franchised itself into an international chain.

Notable dishes

Bian rou dumpling soup

Salt-baked duotou clams

References

^ "Putien (Kitchener Road) – Singapore - a MICHELIN Guide Restaurant".

^ "Brand Story – PUTIEN".

^ "Ingredient: Duotou Clams from Putian, China".

Buddha Jumps Over the Wall

Lychee pork

Qi Jiguang bread

Ding bian hu

Hujiao bing

Fujian red wine chicken

Shaxian delicacies

Gua bao

Fish ball

Bak kut teh

Ban mian

Lor mee

Ngo hiang

Oyster omelette

Popiah

Shacha sauce

Fuzhou cuisine

Putian cuisine

Cuisine of Hong Kong

Cuisine of Macao

Chinese cuisine

History of Chinese cuisine

Fuzhou (PRC capital)

Jincheng (ROC capital)

History

Politics

Economy

Cities

Jiulong River

Min River

Wuyi Mountains

East China Sea

South China Sea

Taiwan Strait

Haitan Island

Jin River

Huaqiao University

Xiamen University

Jimei University

Xiamen University of Technology

Longyan University

Putian University

Min Chinese language

Hokkien culture

Hoklo people

Written Hokkien

Hokkien architecture

Hokkien earthen buildings

Dehua porcelain

Jian ware

Shoushan stone carvings

Glove puppetry

Koa-á books

Tale of the Lychee Mirror

Gongfu tea

Fujian White Crane

Dog Kung Fu

Poh Seng Tai Tay

Hui'an maidens

Narcissus

Turtle-back tombs

Fuzhou people

Min opera

Lady Linshui

Qi Lin Bayin

Putian people

Puxian opera

Hakka people

Hakka architecture

Fujian cuisine

Buddha jumps over the wall

Kompyang

Lychee pork

Rouyan

Hujiao bing

Fujian red wine chicken

Ding bian hu

Shaxian delicacies

Taro purée

Xian mian

Hokkien mee

Bak kut teh

Banmian

Oolong tea

Sanfang Qixiang

Fuzhou Confucian Temple

Fujian Museum

Jinshan Temple

Xichan Temple

Mount Taimu

St. Dominic's Cathedral

St. John's Church

Anping Bridge

Fujian Tulou

Guanghua Temple

Nanshan Temple

Matsu pilgrimage

Kaiyuan Temple

South Putuo Temple

Zhushan Power Plant

Juguang Tower

Category

Commons

# Teochew cuisine


Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

Teochew cuisine, also known as Chiuchow cuisine, Chaozhou cuisine or Teo-swa cuisine, originated from the Chaoshan region in the eastern part of China's Guangdong Province, which includes the cities of Chaozhou, Shantou and Jieyang. Teochew cuisine bears more similarities to that of Fujian cuisine, particularly Southern Min cuisine, due to the similarity of Teochew's and Fujian's culture, language, and their geographic proximity to each other. However, Teochew cuisine is also influenced by Cantonese cuisine in its style and technique.

Background

Teochew cuisine is well known for its seafood and vegetarian dishes. Its use of flavouring is much less heavy-handed than most other Chinese cuisines and depends much on the freshness and quality of the ingredients for taste and flavour. As a delicate cuisine, oil is not often used in large quantities and there is a relatively heavy emphasis on poaching, steaming and braising, as well as the common Chinese method of stir-frying. Teochew cuisine is also known for serving congee (糜; mí; or mue), in addition to steamed rice or noodles with meals. The Teochew mue is rather different from the Cantonese counterpart, being very watery with the rice sitting loosely at the bottom of the bowl, while the Cantonese dish is more a thin gruel.

Authentic Teochew restaurants serve very strong oolong tea called Tieguanyin in very tiny cups before and after the meal. Presented as gongfu tea, the tea has a thickly bittersweet taste, colloquially known as gam gam (甘甘; gān gān).

A condiment that is popular in Fujian and Taiwanese cuisine and commonly associated with cuisine of certain Teochew groups is shacha sauce (沙茶酱; 沙茶醬; shāchá jiàng). It is made from soybean oil, garlic, shallots, chilies, brill fish and dried shrimp. The paste has a savoury and slightly spicy taste. As an ingredient, it has multiple uses: as a base for soups, as a rub for barbecued meats, as a seasoning for stir-fried dishes, or as a component for dipping sauces.

In addition to soy sauce (widely used in all Chinese cuisines), Teochew people also use fish sauce in their cooking.

Teochew chefs often use a special stock called siang teng (上汤; 上湯; shàngtāng), literally translates from the Teochew dialect as "superior broth". This stock remains on the stove and is continuously replenished (a perpetual stew). Portrayed in popular media, some Hong Kong chefs allegedly use the same superior broth that is preserved for decades. This stock can as well be seen on Chaozhou TV's cooking programmes.

There is a notable feast in Teochew cuisine called jiat dot (食桌; shízhuō; 'food table'). A myriad of dishes are often served, which include shark fin soup, bird's nest soup, lobster, steamed fish, roasted suckling pig and braised goose. However, due to legal and environmental considerations, jiat dot no longer serves shark fin soup and bird's nest soup.

When guests go to jiat dot, they must be neatly dressed, with clean hats and footwear. In earlier times, men were expected to wear long gowns and felt hats, while women would comb their hair carefully, apply light makeup, and wear ruyi hairpins (如意發簪). If one’s clothing is untidy, speech improper, posture careless, or behavior lacking decorum, others will feel that you do not understand proper etiquette and that you fail to show respect and humility. At the table, one must observe good manners—be refined, composed, and handle tableware gently. As stated in the Liji · Quli: "Do not let liquids spill; do not make noises while eating; do not gnaw bones loudly" (毋流歠，毋咤食，毋齧骨). This means that when drinking soup, one must avoid letting it dribble from the mouth; when eating dishes, the tongue should not make smacking or clicking sounds; and when eating meat, one should not gnaw bones so forcefully that it produces noise.

Teochew chefs take pride in their skills of vegetable carving, and carved vegetables are used as garnishes on cold dishes and on the banquet table.

Teochew cuisine is also known for a late night meal known as meh siao (夜宵; yèxiāo) or daa laang (打冷; dǎléng) among the Cantonese. Teochew people enjoy eating out close to midnight in restaurants or at roadside food stalls. Some dai pai dong-like eateries stay open till dawn.

Unlike the typical menu selections of many other Chinese cuisines, Teochew restaurant menus often have a dessert section.

Many people of Teochew origin, also known as Teochiu or Teochew people, have settled in Hong Kong and places in Southeast Asia like Malaysia, Singapore, Cambodia and Thailand. Influences they bring can be noted in Singaporean cuisine and that of other settlements. A large number of Teochew people have also settled in Taiwan, evident in Taiwanese cuisine. Other notable Teochew diaspora communities are in Vietnam, Cambodia and France. A popular noodle soup in both Vietnam and Cambodia, known as hu tieu, originated from the Teochew . There is also a large diaspora of Teochew people (most were from Southeast Asia) in the United States - particularly in California. There is a Teochew Chinese Association in Paris called L'Amicale des Teochews en France.

Notable dishes

Gallery

"Flavor potted" goose (滷水鵝)

Taro paste (芋泥)

Crystal balls (水晶包)

Steamed fish (炊魚)

Oyster omelette (蚝烙)

Fried chive dumplings (韭菜粿)

Patriotic Soup (Protect the Country Dish (護國菜))

A dish of fried tofu (炸豆腐) with dipping sauce.

Teochew rice noodle soup (潮州粿條).

Sautéed prawns with olive vegetables (欖菜焗蝦) .

Teochew hotpot (潮州火鍋)

Sichuan pepper chicken (川椒雞)

Bak Kut Teh (肉骨茶)

See also

List of Chinese dishes

Teochew porridge

Teochew people

Chaoshan culture

References

^ a b Chang, Kwang-chih (1977), Food in Chinese culture: anthropological and historical perspectives, Yale University Press

^ 潮州市侨联. "潮州习俗之回娘家". 潮州市侨联.

^ a b c "潮汕做桌与食桌的风俗 - 普宁市政府门户网站". www.puning.gov.cn. Retrieved March 12, 2026.

^ "你吃過這麼「旁派」的「桌」嗎？" (PDF). 香港潮州商會會訊. 104: 35.

^ "潮汕人"做桌""食桌"大有学问，这几种"食桌"你肯定吃不全！". www.sohu.com. Retrieved March 12, 2026.

^ "禮記章句/卷一·曲禮上·第三十章 - 維基文庫，自由的圖書館". zh.wikisource.org (in Traditional Chinese). Retrieved March 12, 2026.

^ The globalization of Chinese food. Wu, David Y. H., Cheung, Sidney C. H. Honolulu: University of Hawaiʻi Press. 2002. ISBN 9780824825829. OCLC 48176894.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: others (link)

^ "Teochew noodles". AsiaLIFE Vietnam.

^ Yin-Fei Lo, Eileen (2009). Mastering the Art of Chinese Cooking. San Francisco: Chronicle Books LLC. p. 327. ISBN 9780811859332.

^ Mok, Annie (April 5, 2015). "Annielicious Food: TeowChew Png Kueh / TeowChew Glutinous Rice Dumpling (潮州饭粿 / 潮州红桃粄 )". Annielicious Food. Retrieved February 15, 2018.

^ Yin-Fei Lo, Eileen (2009). Mastering the Art of Chinese Cooking. San Francisco: Chronicle Books LLC. pp. 219–221. ISBN 9780811859332.

External links

Yeo's Teochew Popiah Recipe

Jenius' Teochew peach shaped kueh Recipe Archived November 9, 2011, at the Wayback Machine

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

Bak kut teh

Bánh pía

Beef ball

Chai tow kway

Chwee kueh

Crab jujube

Fish ball

Fun guo

Jiaozi

Kway chap

Mee pok

Ngo hiang

Oyster omelette

Patriotic soup

Pig's organ soup

Popiah

Red peach cake

Sichuan pepper chicken

Shacha sauce

Soon kueh

Tao kuih

Teochew porridge

Tieguanyin

Yusheng

# Ou cuisine


Ou cuisine, alternatively known as Wenzhou cuisine, is one of the four schools of Zhejiang cuisine, whereas Zhejiang cuisine is one of the eight major cuisines in China. The ancient name of Wenzhou is Dong'ou. After the founding of the People’s Republic of China, in order to improve the popularity of Wenzhou cuisine, catering experts has renamed the cuisine with its ancient name, "Ou cai". The major elements in Ou cuisine are seafood, which tastes fresh, light, and not bland. During the cooking process, it emphasizes "two light and a heavy," that is, light oil, light thickening, and heavy knife action, and it has a noticeable distinctive style.

Origin

According to a historical Records Huozhi Biography, "In the land of Chu and Yue, rice and fish, fruits, vegetables, and clams..." It demonstrates that people at the period not only cooked fish soup using raw fish but also ate "fruit and veggies with clams." "People in the southeast consume aquatic fish, mussels, snails, and clams as delicacy, but don't recognize it's fishy," according to Zhang Hua's "Natural History." "The Beauty of Food" and "Qiou Wen Mirage" are references to the people of Ouyue at the period, who lived off snakes and clams and believed them to be high-quality treasures. The dietary practices were further developed and enhanced, and cuisine was gradually evolved, which is now known as Ou cuisine. (simplified Chinese: 史记·货殖传》载)

Notable dishes

In order to promote the construction of "Poetic Painting Zhejiang & Hundred counties and thousand bowls" (simplified Chinese: 诗画浙江·百县千碗), recently, hosted by Wenzhou Culture, Radio, Film and Tourism Bureau, Wenzhou Restaurant and Catering Industry Association, the 2021 "hundred counties and thousand bowls - Ou cuisine top ten series of dishes" selection results are available. There were a total of evaluation of 2021 "Ou cuisine top ten hot dishes", "Ou cuisine top ten cold dishes", "Ou cuisine top ten snacks", "Ou cuisine top ten desserts" and "Ou cuisine top ten fashion dishes".

References

^ "温州内城_旅游频道_新浪网". travel.sina.com.cn. Retrieved 2022-04-25.

^ ""百县千碗·瓯菜十大系列菜"出炉". www.wenzhou.gov.cn. Retrieved 2022-04-25.

^ "这一碗简单的温州糯米饭，伴随了无数温州人的成长_腾讯新闻". new.qq.com. Retrieved 2022-04-25.

# Kachin cuisine


Kachin cuisine is food indigenous to the Kachin peoples, who inhabit the northern areas of Myanmar, as well as parts of China and Arunachal Pradesh, associated with Kachin. Kachin restaurants have opened in Myanmar's commercial capital of Yangon, and Kachin migrants have brought the cuisine to other countries. Kachin cuisine is typified by its use of cold-climate ingredients like potatoes, wild game (e.g., venison and wild boar), and foraged herbs and vegetables. The traditional staple is rice, which is traditionally cultivated in hillside fields.

Dishes

Shat jam, a rice dish made from boiled rice, beans, carrots, mushrooms, and fried onions. Can also include meat such as chicken, pork or beef. Also known as Kachin danbauk (ကချင်‌ဒံပေါက်) in Burmese-speaking areas.

Shan hkak, minced beef mixed with basil, garlic, ginger, chilies and pepper.

Japhtu, a spicy side dish made of pounded chilies and garlic. There are many variations such as adding dried beef, fish, banana bud, or tomatoes.

Si pa, a vegetable curry made with rice powder. Typical vegetables included are pumpkin, pumpkin leaf, mustard, mushroom, okra, long beans, and cauliflower.

Silu, a curry made with rice powder and chicken, chilli, basil, garlic, and machyang si.

Bamboo shoots, either salted or preserved is a common side dish.

U hpa, a flavorful chicken porridge which includes rice, chicken, water, ginger, garlic, salt, chicken seasoning powder, fried onion and cilantro as the topping, pickle mustard as the side dish. This dish is a typical porridge bowl that the Kachin eat in some church functions, as it is easy to make for a group of people in short amount of time. On top of that, people eat this dish especially when they are sick as they believe that u hpa gives them the energy to recover from illness.

References

^ "The Burmese Kachin". SBS What's On. Archived from the original on 2017-12-01. Retrieved 2025-05-08.

^ a b Gall, Timothy L.; Gale Research Inc, eds. (1998). "Kachins". Worldmark encyclopedia of cultures and daily life. Detroit: Gale. ISBN 978-0-7876-0552-0.

^ Yangon’s best Kachin food demands overindulgence

^ Long, Douglas (2013-09-13). "Yangon's best Kachin food demands overindulgence". Myanmar Times. Archived from the original on 2017-12-01.

^ "Importantance of Sisig's cultural significance". 2019-05-27. Retrieved 2023-05-19.

^ "Than Than Aye Starts Salted Bamboo Shoots Business". Asian Farmers. 2020-10-23. Retrieved 2022-04-25.

List of Burmese dishes

List of ingredients in Burmese cuisine

Burmese salads

Cassia flower bud salad

Fermented tea leaf salad

Khauk swè thoke

Nan gyi thohk

Mont di

Papaya salad

Burmese fried rice

Buttered rice

Coconut rice

Congee

Danpauk

Glutinous rice Hsi htamin Htamanè Sticky rice in bamboo

Hsi htamin

Htamanè

Sticky rice in bamboo

Htamin jin

Milk rice

Thingyan rice

Dry Kat kyi kaik Sigyet khauk swè

Kat kyi kaik

Sigyet khauk swè

Noodle soups Kawyay khauk swe Kya zan hinga Kyay oh Meeshay Misua Mohinga Nam ngiao Ohn no khao swè

Kawyay khauk swe

Kya zan hinga

Kyay oh

Meeshay

Mohinga

Nam ngiao

Ohn no khao swè

Burmese curry Chicken curry Goat curry Nga thalaut paung Shrimp curry

Chicken curry

Goat curry

Nga thalaut paung

Shrimp curry

Burmese fritters Baya gyaw Banana fritters Samuza

Baya gyaw

Banana fritters

Samuza

Burmese tofu

Lahpet

Breads Chapati Nanbya Palata Puri Toshay

Chapati

Nanbya

Palata

Toshay

Soups Thizone hin Talabaw

Thizone hin

Talabaw

Burmese mont Apon Bein mont Curry puff Halawa Pathein halawa Htamane Gyalabi Khanon i Khanon htok Khauk mont Kulfi Kyaukkyaw Ladu Malaing lone Masakat Mayway mont Mont baung Mont kalama Mont kywe the Mont lin maya Mont lone yay baw Nankhatai Nga mont Ngapyaw baung Ounhmangu Pashu mont Sanwin makin Shwe htamin Thagu Thagu byin Htanthi mont Htoe mont

Bein mont

Curry puff

Halawa

Pathein halawa

Htamane

Gyalabi

Khanon i

Khanon htok

Khauk mont

Kyaukkyaw

Malaing lone

Masakat

Mayway mont

Mont baung

Mont kalama

Mont kywe the

Mont lin maya

Mont lone yay baw

Nankhatai

Nga mont

Ngapyaw baung

Ounhmangu

Pashu mont

Sanwin makin

Shwe htamin

Thagu byin

Htanthi mont

Htoe mont

Burmese fruit preserves

Burmese pork offal skewers

Kawpyan

Burmese tea Burmese milk tea

Burmese milk tea

Mont let saung

Palm wine

Phaluda

Shalabat

Sugarcane juice

Shwe yin aye

Yogurt

Dried shrimp

Jaggery

Ngachin

Mango pickle

Mohnyin tjin

Paw hsan hmwe

Pon ye gyi

Beef taboo

Daunglan

Kachin cuisine

Manipuri cuisine

Satuditha

Tea culture

Teahouse

Tiffin carrier

Zhonghe Myanmar Street

Category

This article about Burmese cuisine is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

# Hmong cuisine


Hmong cuisine comprises the culinary culture of Hmong people, an Asian diaspora originally from China who are present today in countries across the world. Because Hmong people come from all over the world, their cuisine is a fusion of many flavors and histories in East and Southeast Asia, as well as modern diasporas in the Western world such as the United States. Most dishes are not unique to Hmong culture, but are rather served in a Hmong style developed during centuries of migration across cultures.

Staple elements include fresh herbs, vegetables such as leafy greens and hot peppers, steamed rice, and small amounts of meat, often chicken meat. Herbs are of major importance as both a food, a flavoring agent, and traditional medicine. Common southeast Asian sauces such as oyster and fish sauce feature prominently, although a fresh sauce called "pepper dip" which is unique to Hmong cuisine is so popular that the first ever Hmong cookbook included 11 variations.

Cooking is traditionally done by steaming or boiling and many dishes are prepared as simple stews or soups. In the modern Hmong diaspora, other forms of cooking such as stir frying have become common. Historically the animal fats and oils required for frying were scarce.

There is an emphasis on fresh ingredients, as many Hmong are farmers and may pick ingredients from a garden just before cooking. Butchering for meat is also done close to the time of cooking. Frugality is a common theme, as many Hmong are from low-income backgrounds, especially Hmong Americans who immigrated from underfunded refugee camps. Prior to the 21st century, Hmong lived mostly in self-sustaining agricultural villages where they raised livestock and grew crops.

Hmong cuisine as fusion

Co-founder and executive director of the Hmong American Farmers Association Pakou Hang calls Hmong cuisine "the ultimate fusion food". Hmong cuisine is influenced by frequent ancient and modern migration, including through Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, China, Japan, South Korea, and even the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Argentina. Some sources claim Hmong food is closest to Laotian cuisine, but the diversity of Hmong backgrounds complicates the idea of a single origin. For example, some Hmong identify with their country of settlement even among other Hmong, such as Thai Hmong, Lao Hmong, and Hmong American, which greatly influences their cuisine.

Hmong American celebrity chef Yia Vang calls Hmong cuisine a "philosophy" and a way to understand Hmong culture.

I would tell people that Hmong food is not just a type of food. It’s not about the product. It’s a philosophy. If you want to know Hmong food, you have know our people. Our story is intricately woven into the food that we eat. It’s our culture DNA that's made out of food that we eat. If you want to know our people you have to know our food. By knowing our food, you will know our story. You'll know where we been and it will show the trajectory to where we’re going.

— Chef Yia Vang at Industry Rules Magazine,

Scholars such as Alison Hope Alkon and Kat Vang, writing in The Immigrant-Food Nexus: Borders, Labor, and Identity in North America (2020), call Hmong cuisine translocal: a cuisine rooted in multiple localities and highly informed by ethnic culture and history regardless of state definitions of citizenship. They categorized food from Hmong American survey respondents in four categories: indigenous Hmong dishes, Hmong American dishes, Hmong adaptations of other Southeast Asian dishes, and American food eaten by Hmong people.

Common Hmong dishes

Dishes popular among Hmong people, served in a Hmong style, or unique to Hmong cuisine.

Kua txob ntsw (pepper dip)

A condiment made with Thai chilis, cilantro, green onion, salt, monosodium glutamate, fish sauce, and lime juice that is served at most meals, and especially to accompany Hmong sausage. The condiment is known by its Hmong name kua txob ntsw, or in English as pepper dip, pepper condiment, hot chili condiment, or simply "pepper".

Mov nplaum ntshaav (purple sticky rice)

A preparation of glutinous sweet rice and black rice which is a core part of Hmong meals, especially during New Years celebrations. Cooking dilutes the natural dye in black rice, leading to a purple-colored rice dish. In areas where black rice is uncommon, the rice may be dyed with purple cornstalk or purple carrots.

Nyhuv ntxwm hmoob (Hmong sausage)

A fresh pork sausage seasoned with herbs like lemongrass and Kaffir lime leaf. Usually served with purple sticky rice and pepper dip.

nqaij qaib tis (stuffed chicken wings)

Deboned chicken wings stuffed with a meat mixture such as from an egg roll.

Kab yaub (egg rolls)

Traditional "Hmong" egg rolls can be culturally tied back to Vietnamese egg rolls during their migration across Asia. These fried and flour wrapped rolls can be found at family events and annual events such as the Hmong New Year. The Hmong community of Rhode Island holds an annual fundraiser by selling traditional Hmong egg rolls.

Each family has their own recipe, but typically the rolls consist of eggs mixed with shredded carrots and cabbage, ground pork, onions, scallions, and cilantro. These are seasoned with oyster sauce, rolled in a paper-thin wheat shell, and deep fried.

Nab vam (tri-color)

Dyed tapioca jelly with a sweet coconut sauce. Nab vam (pronounced as Nah-vah) is a traditional Hmong drink that is occasionally served during special events. In English, it can sometimes be called “tri-color”. Naab vaam is a sweetened dessert drink that consists of coconut, tapioca pearls, cendol, and many other toppings that are mixed in. In Hmong culture, it is essential to have toppings such as colored chestnuts, gelatin, sweet fruit, and grass jelly. Most of these toppings can be made from scratch by using sugar, coconut milk, and rice flour.

Khaub piaj/ko pia (chicken soup with rice noodles)

A simple chicken soup with homemade rice noodles adopted from the Lao.[citation needed] There are various names and spellings such as khaub piaj and ko pia or kopia.

Zaub qaub (pickled mustard greens)

Mustard greens fermented in rice water or salt and vinegar. Commonly served with a meat dish such as Hmong sausage and sticky rice.

Agricultural traditions

Hmong people are traditionally agricultural. Diaspora communities in the United States are known for their thriving home and community garden spaces, as well as strains of plants unique to Hmong seed keepers. Hmong New Year, the most major annual event, is centered around the annual rice harvest and involves nearly a week of feasts and whole roasted pigs. Rice is considered the Hmong staple crop and is incorporated in most meals. Maize is an alternate staple crop for some Hmong villages.

A study of six Hmong villages in Northern Thailand found that vegetable stems and leaves were the main form of food, and the Hmong villagers consumed a total of 130 different species of vegetable. The most common preparations were raw or boiled in chicken soup. While many vegetables were cultivated, some were foraged from surrounding forests. Hmong cultivation of endangered plants for food was found to indirectly support their conservation.

Some key crops that Hmong American farmers produce are amaranth, bitter melon, mini and regular bitterball, Chinese long beans, cucuzza squash, gai lon (gai lan, Chinese broccoli), "Hmong corn", Hmong cucumbers, and "Hmong greens" (yu choy).

Herbs are used as food, seasoning, and traditional medicine–frequently all three at once.

Hmong Americans tend to grow herbs in small pots and plots at home so they are close at hand for harvesting fresh and cooking quickly. Fresh herbs are so central to traditional Hmong cuisine, one participant in a Fresno, California majority-Hmong community garden said: "If you see pots outside with cilantro and [green onions], you know this is Hmong family."

A common herb combination is "chicken herbs": a bundle that includes usually eight herbs used to flavor a chicken soup from traditional Hmong medicine (Nqaij Qaib Hau Xyaw Tshuaj). The recipe is considered by some to be the signature Hmong dish.

Common herbs in tshuaj rau qaib (chicken soup herbs) mixture:

Ncas liab

Ntiv (Joe-pye weed strain)

Zej tshua ntuag

Koj liab/ko taw os liab

Tshuaj rog liab

Nkaj liab Hmoob (Iresine)

Pawj qaib (grassy-leaved sweet flag)

Xuv ntsim

Tauj dub (Cymbopogon citratus, known as lemon grass)

Nroj rog liab (Okinawan spinach)

Limnophila rugosa

Sedum sarmentosum

Livestock

Hmong traditionally raise livestock such as chickens, cattle, and pigs. Chicken is a common meat while meats such as beef and pork were reserved for special occasions. In the 2000s an estimated 600 Hmong poultry farms existed in the United States, particularly in Southern states such as Arkansas, Missouri, Oklahoma, and North Carolina. Chicken is core to Hmong cuisine and additionally serves ritual purposes and features in traditional embroidery.

Hunting, fishing, and foraging meat remain a significant supplement to livestock, even for Hmong diaspora in the United States. A study of Hmong households in Wisconsin recorded that 60% regularly hunted and fished, which was twice the rate of the general population.

Hmong American cuisine

Mass immigration of Hmong refugees from Southeast Asia in the 1980s after the Laotian Civil War led to a sizable population of Hmong people in the United States, primarily Fresno, California and Saint Paul, Minnesota. These Hmong adapted their own Southeast Asian cuisine to the realities of refugee camps in Thailand and poverty in the United States. Dishes tend to be small but flavorful, seasoned generously with herbs and spices. Rice is a staple in meals to balance out strong flavors. Hmong-style American food such as spiced hamburgers is sometimes called "Mee-Ka".

Hmong American scholar Kou Yang says that Hmong American cuisine is distinct from other cuisines of the Hmong diaspora because it incorporates a large amount of national cuisines from Asia with a number of Western cuisines including American and French. Prominent Hmong chefs in Minnesota are trained in Western-style cooking, and make Hmong cuisine with similarities to the food of Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam.

Hmong American households tend to be smaller than traditional Hmong households, with an average of three people per household and a focus on nuclear family versus extended tribe and clan ties, changing how food is produced and consumed, including making smaller meals. Hmong Americans born abroad who grew up in America may identify as a third culture kid, a child who was influenced by an exceptionally large amount of cultures and as a result feels they have their own new culture, especially around food. Some sources also describe this as the "one-and-a-half generation". Hmong households in Minnesota were found to have the highest frequency of family meals and adolescent involvement in food preparation, versus other ethnic groups.

Holidays and religion

While Christian and American holidays are widely adopted, they are celebrated in distinctly Hmong ways with traditional costumes and Hmong cuisine. A Thanksgiving meal might look like rice, Hmong sausage, and boiled chicken alongside the traditional American turkey, mashed potatoes, and gravy. Hmong sausage is a common dish during Hmong New Years celebrations and at other large gatherings such as festivals and graduations. It is typically served with purple sticky rice, a preparation for naturally dyed glutinous rice.

Because many Hmong American Christians do not eat food made with blood, during mixed gatherings with Christians and traditional animists multiple forms of foods are prepared with and without blood.

Commercial food preparation

Yia Vang founded Vinai in 2024 and ran a popular restaurant called Union Hmong Kitchen in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

Hmongtown Marketplace in Saint Paul, Minnesota serves a variety of Hmong-style foods.

Notable figures

Notable figures in Hmong American cuisine include:

Yia Vang, celebrity chef and restaurateur

Diane Moua, pastry chef

Marc Heu, French pastry chef

Thony Yang, chef de cuisine at Four Seasons Hotel, Minneapolis

La Vang-Herr, chef

Noobstaa Philip Vang, chef and entrepreneur

Genevieve Vang, chef and restauranteur

In popular culture

Chef Yia Vang featured Hmong food in Iron Chef: Quest for an Iron Legend episode six, "Battle Chili Peppers".

Dishes from Hmongtown Marketplace vendors were featured in 2019 as part of CNN's Emmy Award-winning United Shades of America with owner Toua Xiong and local Hmong American chef Yia Vang.

Award-winning Hmong American poet May Lee-Yang writes about Hmong food culture such as in The Things a Hmong Woman Loves: "a Hmong Woman loves baby / cucumbers, unripened papayas, and green mangoes / anything she can dip with chili peppers and fish sauce / to spice up her life"

New York Times June 26, 2025, feature by Brett Anderson on Yia Vang and Diane Moua and their roles with great Hmong food

Gallery

Laotian bowl of Pheu Hmong at Sunday Market in French Guiana

An ethnic Hmong marketplace in Laos

A Hmong dinner table

Pea shoots for sale from a Hmong farmers market vendor in California

A Hmong farmer harvesting flowers and herbs in California

Mung bean cake at Bắc Hà Sunday Market in Vietnam

A varietal of cucumber grown by the Hmong people

Hmong goat head soup meal at Bắc Hà Sunday Market in Vietnam

A Hmong specialities restaurant in Ha Giang city, Vietnam, in 2014

See also

List of Asian cuisines

References

^ a b c Alkon & Vang 2020, p. 270

^ a b c d e f Bankston 2014

^ Scripter & Yang 2009

^ Scripter & Yang 2009, p. 6

^ a b c d Alkon & Vang 2020, p. 262

^ a b c John, Steven (4 March 2015). "Appetites: Hmong cuisine, 'the ultimate fusion food'". MPR News. Minnesota Public Radio. Retrieved 2 November 2023.

^ Alkon & Vang 2020, p. 263

^ Harris, Phyllis Louise (2007-11-22). "The elusive Hmong cuisine". Twin Cities Daily Planet. Retrieved 2023-10-26.

^ Vang 2009, p. 92

^ a b ArtFormss (2023-10-01). "Chef Yia Vang". Industry Rules. Retrieved 2023-10-26.

^ a b Alkon & Vang 2020, p. 269

^ "Hot Chili Condiment". www.splendidtable.org. Retrieved 2023-10-24.

^ a b Vang 2009, p. 67

^ Her, Cindy (2020-12-12). "Purple Sticky Rice: Mov Nplaum Ntshaav – C.HerCreations". Retrieved 2023-10-26.

^ Vang, Yia (2020-04-14). "Purple Sticky Rice". Bon Appétit. Retrieved 2023-10-26.

^ a b c Mennecke, Rebecca (2020-11-25). "Make Purple Sticky Rice to Celebrate the Hmoob New Year". volumeone.org. Photos by Yia Lor. Retrieved 2023-10-26.

^ "Prix Fixe Hmong Dinner". Rose City Book Pub. 2023-05-20. Retrieved 2023-10-24.

^ a b c Ciampa, Gail (28 May 2014). "Traditional egg rolls are centerpiece of Providence Hmong Church fundraiser". Providence, RI: The Providence Journal. Retrieved 31 December 2017.

^ Her, Cindy (2019-07-14). "Pork Egg Rolls (Kab Yaub) – C.HerCreations". Retrieved 2023-10-25.

^ ourlittlenook. "Seriously, the Best Egg Rolls! Hmong Egg Rolls – Our Little Nook". Retrieved 2023-10-25.

^ ourlittlenook. "Sweet Coconut Tapioca Dessert-Nab Vam – Our Little Nook". Retrieved 2023-10-25.

^ "Tri-color Tapioca Pearl Coconut Milk Dessert, Nab Vam". 3 January 2021. Retrieved 2023-10-25.

^ "Naab Vaam". 7 October 2021.

^ Kathynomnom. "Khaub Piaj (Ko Pia) – Hmong Chicken Noodle Soup". Kathy Nom Nom. Retrieved 2023-10-26.

^ Her, Cindy (1 June 2022). "Grandma's Pickled Mustard Greens: Puj's Zaub Qaub [Preserving Grandma's Recipe]". C.HawjCreations. Retrieved 11 November 2023.

^ a b L'Annunziata 2010

^ Vang 2016, p. 942

^ Vang 2009, p. 112

^ a b c d Nguanchoo, Varangrat; Srisanga, Prachaya; Swangpol, Sasivimon; Prathanturarug, Sompop; Jenjittikul, Thaya (2014). "Food plants in Hmong cuisine in Northern Thailand" (PDF). The Journal of Botany วารสารพฤกษศาสตรไทย. 6 (2): 131–145. Retrieved April 20, 2024.

^ Turner, Bonnin & Michaud 2015, p. 40.

^ Vang 2009, p. 66.

^ Heilmann, Katherine (2011). "Production, Yield, and Market Analysis of Produce Raised by Minnesota Hmong American / Immigrant Farmers". University of Minnesota. Retrieved November 2, 2024. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)

^ L'Annunziata 2010, p. 111

^ a b "Cooking From The Heart: The Hmong Kitchen In America – Recipes". hmongcooking.com. Retrieved 2023-10-26.

^ a b c d e Raemont, Nina. "Sharing Food: Qaib rau tshuaj (Hmong chicken in herbs)". The Minnesota Daily. Retrieved 2023-10-25.

^ a b c d e f g h i j "Hmong Medicinal Chicken Herb Starter Package – Tshuaj Rau Qaib Package". Hmong Specialty Plants & Herbs. Retrieved 2023-10-25.

^ a b c Srithi, Kamonnate; Trisonthi, Chusie; Wangpakapattanawong, Prasit; Srisanga, Prachaya; Balslev, Henrik (May 26, 2012). "Plant Diversity in Hmong and Mien Homegardens in Northern Thailand". Economic Botany. 66 (2). Bronx, New York: The New York Botanical Garden Press: 192–206. Bibcode:2012EcBot..66..192S. doi:10.1007/s12231-012-9199-y. Retrieved April 25, 2024 – via Springer Link.

^ Crum, Alexandra Hazel (2024). Medicines, Metabolites, and Pigments in Caryophyllales and Beyond (Doctor of Philosophy thesis). University of Minnesota. ProQuest 31327584. Retrieved October 30, 2024.

^ Vang 2016, p. 953

^ Chiu, Jeannie (2004). "'I Salute the Spirit of My Communities': Autoethnographic Innovations in Hmong American Literature". College Literature. 31 (3). The Johns Hopkins University Press: 43–69. doi:10.1353/lit.2004.0030. JSTOR 25115207. Retrieved April 21, 2024. A triangular pattern with one jagged edge is known as "chicken tail" and evokes the chicken s important position in Hmong cuisine and as a ritual offering (22). A chicken is sacrificed at funerals, since it is believed to guide the soul of the deceased to the afterworld.

^ Bussjaeger, Jackie A. (2020). "Down the Deer Path: Reflections on the Future of Hunting in America". Graduate Student Theses, Dissertations, & Professional Papers. University of Montana. Retrieved April 20, 2024. As the study observed, connection to the natural world is a significant part of Hmong culture, though widely under-researched. On American soil, many Hmong have continued the hunting, fishing, and foraging practices they carried out while living in Laos. A 1993 study found that 60 percent of Hmong households in Green Bay, Wisconsin participated in hunting and fishing – more than twice the participation rate of Green Bay's general population.

^ a b Zonunpari, Angela (2023-08-22). "Minnesotans Line Up for Hmong Food from Yia Vang". Arts Midwest. Retrieved 2023-10-24.

^ Pfeifer, Chiu & Yang 2013, p. 43.

^ Anderson, Brett (June 26, 2025). "What Is Great Hmong Food? These Chefs Have the Answer". The New York Times. Retrieved June 26, 2025.

^ Vang 2016, p. 939

^ Pfeifer, Chiu & Yang 2013, pp. 75.

^ "Gia Vang and Yia Vang on 'Hmonglish,' Iron Chef and leaving KARE 11". MPR News. 2022-06-15. Retrieved 2023-10-24.

^ Trofholz, Amanda; Tate, Allan; Fulkerson, Jayne A; Hearst, Mary O; Neumark-Sztainer, Dianne; Berge, Jerica M (2019). "Description of the home food environment in Black, White, Hmong, Latino, Native American and Somali homes with 5–7-year-old children". Public Health Nutrition. 22 (5): 882–893. doi:10.1017/S136898001800280X. ISSN 1368-9800. PMC 7310517. PMID 30477596.

^ Vang 2016, p. 965

^ Vang 2016, p. 968

^ "'Food Is A Universal Language': Chef Yia Vang Finds Home For Hmong Flavors In Minneapolis' North Loop – CBS Minnesota". www.cbsnews.com. 2021-10-28. Retrieved 2023-10-24.

^ a b c d Vang, Ka (February 1, 2025). "Vang: Hmong cuisine is having a moment – make that a movement – thanks to these three Minnesota chefs". The Minnesota Star Tribune. Retrieved February 2, 2025.

^ Sheidlower, Noah (July 16, 2023). "Hmong cuisine and culture are having a moment in the US. We spoke with the restaurateurs and farmers driving innovation". Business Insider. Retrieved April 5, 2025.

^ Shah, Khushbu (December 10, 2020). "Finding Home in a Hmong Food Cart". Food & Wine. Retrieved April 5, 2025.

^ Mandhani, Nikita (September 8, 2017). "A note from the chef: Meal delivery business also delivers immigrant stories". The Washington Post. Retrieved April 5, 2025.

^ "Shawarmas From Syria: One Refugee Chef's Story". World Food Program USA. United Nations World Food Programme. November 16, 2021. Retrieved April 5, 2025.

^ Houck, Brenna (October 9, 2019). "Savvy Chef Genevieve Vang Brings Creativity to the Menu at Bangkok 96 Street Food". Eater Detroit. Retrieved April 5, 2025.

^ King, R.J. (March 4, 2013). "When Opportunity Knocks". DBusiness Magazine. Retrieved April 5, 2025.

^ "Battle Chili Peppers". Iron Chef: Quest for an Iron Legend. Netflix.

^ Jackson, Sharyn (19 May 2019). "CNN show 'United Shades of America' goes inside the home of Minnesota's rising star Hmong chef". Star Tribune. Retrieved 29 October 2023.

^ Lee-Yang, May (2020). "The Things a Hmong Woman Loves". May Lee Yang. May Lee-Yang & Lazy Hmong Woman Productions. Retrieved 4 November 2023.

^ Anderson, Brett (2025-06-26). "What Is Great Hmong Food? These Chefs Have the Answer". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved 2025-07-13.

Alkon AH, Vang K (24 March 2020). "13: Boiled Chicken and Pizza: The Making of Transnational Hmong American Foodways". In Agyeman J, Giacalone S (eds.). The Immigrant-Food Nexus: Borders, Labor, and Identity in North America. Food, Health, and the Environment. MIT Press. pp. 261–280. doi:10.7551/mitpress/11862.001.0001. ISBN 9780262538411.

Bankston, Carl L. (2014). "Hmong Americans". In Riggs, Thomas (ed.). Gale Encyclopedia of Multicultural America. Vol. 2 (3rd ed.). Gale, part of Cengage Group. p. 336. Retrieved April 27, 2024 – via Gale Power Search. White rice is the staple food of the Hmong. The dishes eaten with rice are often spiced with peppers in a manner similar to Thai food. The Hmong also eat noodle dishes that resemble a Vietnamese noodle soup known as pho, which has become popular in the United States. Common meat dishes include broiled chicken, lemongrass marinated pork, and sautéed chicken. The Hmong Americans often grow their own vegetables in gardens, including bitter melon, bok choi, eggplant, and turnips. Traditional foods are especially popular among Hmong Americans at the annual New Year festival.

Cha, Ya Po (2010). An Introduction to Hmong Culture. Jefferson: North Carolina: McFarland & Company, Inc., Publishers. ISBN 978-0-7864-4951-4 – via Internet Archive.

L'Annunziata, Elena (2010). "Following the Plant: The Political Ecology of a Hmong Community Garden". Humboldt Journal of Social Relations. 33 (1/2): 97–134. JSTOR 23263228.

Lee, Gary Yia; Tapp, Nicholas (2010). Lu, Hanchao (ed.). Culture and Customs of the Hmong. Culture and Customs of Asia. Santa Barbara, California: Greenwood Publishing Group, an imprint of ABC-CLIO, LLC. ISBN 978-0-313-34526-5 – via Internet Archive.

Pfeifer, Mark Edward; Chiu, Monica; Yang, Kou, eds. (January 31, 2013). Diversity in Diaspora. Honolulu, Hawaii: University of Hawaii Press. ISBN 978-0-8248-3777-8. Project MUSE 21545.

Scripter, Sami; Yang, Sheng (2009). Cooking from the Heart: The Hmong Kitchen in America. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press. ISBN 9781452914510. OCLC 286478281. Cooking from the Heart: The Hmong Kitchen in America at Google Books

Turner, Sarah; Bonnin, Christine; Michaud, Jean (2015). Frontier Livelihoods: Hmong In the Sino-Vietnamese Borderlands. Seattle: University of Washington Press. ISBN 978-0-295-99466-6.

Vang, Chia Youyee (24 July 2009). Hmong in Minnesota. People of Minnesota. Minnesota Historical Society Press. ISBN 9780873517379.

Vang, Nengher N. (13 March 2016). "Hmong American Culture". In Dong, Lan (ed.). Asian American Culture: From Anime to Tiger Moms. Cultures of the American Mosaic. Bloomsbury Publishing. ISBN 978-1440829208.

Further reading

Burckhardt, Ann (2004). "Family Reunions + Feasting = Hmong New Year". A Cook's Tour of Minnesota. Minnesota Historical Society Press. pp. 39–54. ISBN 9780873514682. A Cook's Tour of Minnesota at Google Books

Carman, Tim (December 26, 2018). "In the Twin Cities, Asian chefs feel the sting of Andrew Zimmern's insults. They say his apology isn't enough". Washington Post. EBSCOhost wapo.77beee1e-ff37-11e8-862a-b6a6f3ce8199. Retrieved November 18, 2024.

More Best Ever Food Review Show (October 17, 2021). NOT For Newbies!! The Asian Food You've NEVER SEEN Before!! (video). Retrieved October 21, 2024 – via YouTube.

OTR Food & History (February 18, 2025). Chasing the Cuisine of Southeast Asia's Invisible People (video). Retrieved February 27, 2025 – via YouTube.

Regan, Sheila (June 11, 2024). "Yia Vang: Hmong food is 'such a young cuisine'". MinnPost. Retrieved April 9, 2025.

External links

Agriculture & Land Relations in Hmong Culture from Learn Uake

Hmong recipe website from the authors of Cooking from the Heart: The Hmong Kitchen in America

What is authenticity in food? essay by Union Hmong Kitchen's Yia Vang and Ming-Jinn Tong

Culinary culture of the Hmong people Hmong Food

Thailand

Vietnam

United States

Israel

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

# Taoist diet


Outline

History

Taoist philosophy

Taiji Yin and yang

Yin and yang

Wuxing (five phases)

Bianhua

Fan (reversal)

Wu wei (non-action)

Wu xin (no-mind)

Xian (immortal)

Zhenren

True form

Three Treasures Jing Qi Shen

Hun and po

Three Treasures (virtues)

Five Precepts

Ten Precepts

Meditation

Alchemy Neidan Waidan

Neidan

Waidan

Bugang

Diet (Bigu)

Sexual practices

Priesthood

I Ching

Tao Te Ching

Zhuangzi

Huainanzi

Taipingjing

Xiang'er

Sanhuangjing

Huahujing

Qingjing Jing

Baopuzi

Daozang

Hongjun Laozu

Three Pure Ones Yuanshi Tianzun Lingbao Tianzun Daode Tianzun

Yuanshi Tianzun

Lingbao Tianzun

Daode Tianzun

Four heavenly ministers Jade Emperor Ziwei Emperor Tianhuang Emperor Houtu

Jade Emperor

Ziwei Emperor

Tianhuang Emperor

Queen Mother of the West

King Father of the East

Three Great Emperor-Officials

Eight Immortals

Chang'e

Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors Yellow Emperor

Yellow Emperor

Guan Yu

Li Hong

Body god

Zhuang Zhou

Lie Yukou

Heshang Gong

Wei Boyang

Zhang Daoling

Gan Ji

Zhang Jue

Zhang Lu

Ge Xuan

He Yan

Wang Bi

Seven Sages of the Bamboo Grove

Guo Xiang

Sun Hanhua

Wei Huacun

Ge Hong

Bao Jingyan

Kou Qianzhi

Lu Xiujing

Tao Hongjing

Cheng Xuanying

Chen Tuan

Zhang Boduan

Sun Bu'er

Wang Chongyang

Qiu Chuji

Zhang Guoxiang

Zhang Sanfeng

Zhu Quan

Fangshi

Huang–Lao

Way of the Taiping

Xuanxue

Shangqing School

Way of the Li Family

Lingbao School

Chongxuan School

Quanzhen School Dragon Gate

Dragon Gate

Wuliupai

Way of the Celestial Masters Way of the Five Pecks of Rice The Southern Celestial Masters The Northern Celestial Masters Zhengyi Dao

Way of the Five Pecks of Rice

The Southern Celestial Masters

The Northern Celestial Masters

Zhengyi Dao

Chinese ritual mastery traditions Yao Taoism

Yao Taoism

Grotto-heavens

Sacred Mountains of China Wudang Mountains

Wudang Mountains

Mount Penglai

Mount Kunlun

Taoist temple White Cloud Temple Louguantai Cebu Taoist Temple Taoist Temple (Hanford, California)

White Cloud Temple

Louguantai

Cebu Taoist Temple

Taoist Temple (Hanford, California)

Chinese Taoist Association

Celestial Masters

Taoist priests

Category

Chuan (Sichuan)

Lu (Shandong)

Yue (Guangdong)

Huaiyang (Jiangsu)

Fujian

Zhejiang

Beijing

Shanghai

Shaanxi

Liaoning

Tianjin

Yunnan

Hangzhou

Liaoning

Ningbo

Shaanxi

Shanghai

Shanxi

Beijing

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin

Teochew

Guangxi

Guizhou

Hainan

Haipai

Hong Kong

Jiangxi

Macanese

Manchu

Northeastern

Putian (Henghwa)

Qinghai

Taiwan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Australia

Britain

Cambodia

Canada

Caribbean

Philippines

Indonesia

Latin America Perú Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico

Malaysia

New Zealand

Pakistan

Singapore

United States

Buddhist

Islamic

Taoist

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

Customs and etiquette

List of Chinese desserts

List of Chinese dishes

List of Chinese restaurants

List of restaurants in China

Asia portal

China portal

Taiwan portal

Hong Kong portal

Singapore portal

Malaysia portal

While there are many historical and modern schools of Taoism with different teachings on the subject, many Taoist priests[who?] regard their diet as extremely important to their physical, mental and spiritual health in one way or another, especially where the amount of qi in the food is concerned.

Fasting

Some early Taoist diets called for bigu (simplified Chinese: 辟谷; traditional Chinese: 辟穀; pinyin: bìgǔ; Wade–Giles: pi-ku; lit. 'avoiding grains'), based on the belief that immortality could be achieved in this way. The ancient Taoist texts of the Taiping Jing suggest that individuals who attained the state of complete ziran would not need food at all, but instead could sustain themselves by absorbing the cosmic qi.

Vegetarianism

Taoist religious orders often promote a vegetarian diet in order to minimize harm to other sentient life. Taoist levels of dietary restriction, however, are varied.

Contemporary Taoism

According to Ming Yi Wang, one version of the taoist diet includes bigu, veganism, as well as refraining from eating strong-smelling plants, traditionally asafoetida, shallot, mountain leek, and Allium chinense or other alliums, which together with garlic are referred to as wǔ hūn (五葷, or 'Five Fetid and Strong-smelling Vegetables'). Additionally, nightshades are avoided.

See also

Bigu (grain avoidance)

Ch'ang Ming

Chinese food therapy

Macrobiotic diet

References

^ Kohn, Livia (1993). The Taoist Experience: An Anthology. Albany: SUNY. p. 149. ISBN 9780791415795

^ Hendrischke, Barbara (2015) Scripture on Great Peace, University of California Press. sect. 44. ISBN 9780520286283

^ Zai, J. (2015). Taoism and Science: Cosmology, Evolution, Morality, Health and more. Ultravisum. ISBN 978-0-9808425-5-5.

^ Wang, Ming Yi (2010). Ancient Wisdom for Total Vitality. Triple Muse Publications. ISBN 097798432X

Further reading

Reid, Daniel P. – The Tao of Health, Sex, and Longevity: A Modern Practical Guide to the Ancient Way 2001. ISBN 978-0-7434-0907-0

Saso, Michael R., A Taoist Cookbook: With Meditations Taken from the Laozi Daode Jing. Tuttle, 1994. (ISBN 0-8048-3037-1)

Schipper, Kristofer. The Taoist Body. Berkeley: University of California, 1993.

Symonds, Mike. Tai Chi Diet: Food for Life. Life Force Publishing, 2007. (ISBN 0-9542932-8-2)

Soo, Chee The Tao of Long Life. Seahorse Books, 2006.

Welch, Holmes and Anna Seidel, eds.Facets of Taoism: Essays in Chinese Religion. New Haven: Yale University, 1979.

External links

Yoked to Earth: A Treatise on Corpse-Demons and Bigu Archived 2020-10-14 at the Wayback Machine, Frederick R. Dannaway (2009)

Tao (way)

Taiji (ultimate) Wuji (non-polarity) Yin and yang (duality) Bagua (eight trigrams)

Wuji (non-polarity)

Yin and yang (duality)

Bagua (eight trigrams)

Feng shui

Wuxing (five phases)

Bianhua (transformation)

Fan (reversion)

De (integrity)

Wu wei (nonaction)

Ziran (spontenaity) Pu (plainness)

Pu (plainness)

Zhenren

Five precepts

Ten precepts

Neidan (internal alchemy)

Waidan (external alchemy)

Yangsheng (self-cultivation) Daoyin (calisthenics)

Daoyin (calisthenics)

Meditation

Three Treasures Jing (essence) Qi (breath) Shen (spirit)

Jing (essence)

Qi (breath)

Shen (spirit)

Xian (immortality)

Art Fulu (talismancy)

Fulu (talismancy)

Tao Te Ching

Zhuangzi

Huainanzi

Taipingjing

Xiang'er

Sanhuangjing

Huahujing

Qingjing Jing

Baopuzi

Daozang

Hongjun Laozu

Three Pure Ones Yuanshi Tianzun Lingbao Tianzun Daode Tianzun

Yuanshi Tianzun

Lingbao Tianzun

Daode Tianzun

Four Sovereigns Jade Emperor Ziwei Emperor Tianhuang Emperor Houtu

Jade Emperor

Ziwei Emperor

Tianhuang Emperor

Three Great Emperor-Officials

Queen Mother of the West

King Father of the East

Eight Immortals

Chang'e

Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors Yellow Emperor

Yellow Emperor

Guan Shengdi

Other deities

Zhuang Zhou

Lie Yukou

Heshang Gong

Wei Boyang

Zhang Daoling

Gan Ji

Zhang Jue

Zhang Lu

Ge Xuan

He Yan

Wang Bi

Seven Sages of the Bamboo Grove

Guo Xiang

Wei Huacun

Ge Hong

Bao Jingyan

Kou Qianzhi

Lu Xiujing

Tao Hongjing

Cheng Xuanying

Chen Tuan

Zhang Boduan

Sun Bu'er

Wang Chongyang

Qiu Chuji

Zhang Guoxiang

Zhang Sanfeng

Zhu Quan

Fangshi

Huang–Lao

Taiping

Way of the Five Pecks of Rice

Way of the Celestial Masters Northern Celestial Masters Zhengyi

Northern Celestial Masters

Zhengyi

Xuanxue

Shangqing

Lingbao Jingming

Jingming

Chongxuan

Quanzhen (Dragon Gate)

Grotto-heavens

Sacred Mountains of China Wudang Mountains

Wudang Mountains

Mount Penglai

Mount Kunlun

Temples Cebu Hanford Louguantai Tong Jee Teung White Cloud

Hanford

Louguantai

Tong Jee Teung

White Cloud

Animal-free agriculture

Black veganism

Women and advocacy

Fruitarianism

History

Raw veganism

Straight edge Hardline

Hardline

Nutrition

Vegan organic agriculture

Vegan school meal

Vegan studies

Economic vegetarianism

Environmental vegetarianism

History Romantic era Victorian era

Romantic era

Victorian era

Orthopathy

Lacto vegetarianism

Lacto-ovo vegetarianism

Ovo vegetarianism

Cuisine

Vegetarian Diet Pyramid

Women and advocacy Ecofeminism

Ecofeminism

Nutrition

By country

Bibliography

Vegetarians

Vegans

Fictional characters

Festivals

Organizations

Vegan and plant-based media

Cheremshanka, Altai Republic

Community of the Ark

Haridwar

New Vrindaban

Palitana

Pushkar

Rishikesh

Tirumala

The Farm (Tennessee)

Animal rights

Animal welfare

Anthropocentrism

Carnism

Deep ecology

Ethics of eating meat

Meat paradox

Nonviolence

Replaceability argument

Sentientism

Speciesism

Tirukkuṟaḷ

Buddhism

Christianity (Seventh-day Adventist Church)

Hinduism Sattvic Ahimsa

Sattvic

Ahimsa

Jainism

Judaism

Pythagoreanism

Rastafari

Sikhism

Taoism

List of vegetarian and vegan companies

Dairy alternatives Coconut milk Plant cream Plant milk Soy yogurt Cheese

Coconut milk

Plant cream

Plant milk

Soy yogurt

Cheese

Meat alternatives List of meat substitutes Bacon Burgers Duck Hot dogs Jambon Quorn Sausage roll Seitan Tempeh Tofu Tofurkey

List of meat substitutes

Burgers

Hot dogs

Jambon

Sausage roll

Seitan

Tempeh

Tofurkey

Gelatin substitutes

Vegetarian mark

American Vegan Society

Beauty Without Cruelty

China Vegan Society

Food Empowerment Project

Go Vegan

Nederlandse Vereniging voor Veganisme

Our Hen House

Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine

Plamil Foods

Vegan Awareness Foundation

Vegan flag

Vegan Outreach

Vegan Prisoners Support Group

The Vegan Society

Veganmania

Vegetarian Resource Group

Veganuary

Veganz

World Vegan Day

Alcott House

Bible Christian Church

Boston Vegetarian Society

Christian Vegetarian Association

Dansk Vegetarisk Forening

Dutch Vegetarian Society

Eden Gemeinnützige Obstbau-Siedlung

European Vegetarian Union

French Vegetarian Society

Hare Krishna Food for Life

The Ideal Publishing Union

International Vegetarian Union

Jewish Veg

Meat-free days Meatless Monday Friday fast

Meatless Monday

Friday fast

North American Vegetarian Society

Order of the Golden Age

ProVeg Deutschland

ProVeg International

ProVeg Nederland

Scottish Vegetarian Society

Swissveg

Toronto Vegetarian Association

Vegetarian Federal Union

Vegetarian Society

Vegetarian Society (Singapore)

Veggie Pride

Viva! Health

Women's Vegetarian Union

World Esperantist Vegetarian Association

World Vegetarian Day

The Animals Film (1981)

Diet for a New America (1991)

A Cow at My Table (1998)

Meet Your Meat (2002)

Post Punk Kitchen (2003–2005)

Peaceable Kingdom (2004)

Earthlings (2005)

A Sacred Duty (2007)

Fat, Sick and Nearly Dead (2010)

Planeat (2010)

Forks Over Knives (2011)

Vegucated (2011)

Live and Let Live (2013)

Speciesism: The Movie (2013)

Cowspiracy (2014)

PlantPure Nation (2015)

What the Health (2017)

Carnage (2017)

Dominion (2018)

Eating You Alive (2018)

The Game Changers (2018)

Punk Rock Vegan Movie (2023)

Maa Ka Doodh (2023)

You Are What You Eat: A Twin Experiment (2024)

The Animals' Agenda

The Children's Realm

Naked Food

The Pleasure Boat

Vegan Journal

The Vegetarian Magazine

Vegetarian Times

VegNews

On Abstinence from Eating Animals (3rd century)

Acetaria: A Discourse of Sallets (1699)

The Fable of the Bees (1714)

A Reasonable Plea for the Animal Creation (1746)

Primitive Cookery (1767)

The Cry of Nature; or, An Appeal to Mercy and to Justice, on Behalf of the Persecuted Animals (1791)

Remarks on Cruelty to Animals (1795)

An Essay on Abstinence from Animal Food, as a Moral Duty (1802)

Vegetable Cookery (1812)

A Vindication of Natural Diet (1813)

Reasons for not Eating Animal Food (1814)

Moral Inquiries on the Situation of Man and of Brutes (1824)

Nature's Own Book (1835)

Fruits and Farinacea (1845)

"The Vegetarian; or a Visit to Aunt Primitive" (1847)

The Penny Domestic Assistant and Guide to Vegetarian Cookery (1850)

The Ethics of Diet (1883)

A Plea for Vegetarianism and Other Essays (1886)

What is Vegetarianism? (1886)

Flesh or Fruit? An Essay on Food Reform (1888)

The First Step (1891)

Shelley's Vegetarianism (1891)

Behind the Scenes in Slaughter-Houses (1892)

Why I Am a Vegetarian (1895)

Figs or Pigs? (1896)

Fifty Years of Food Reform (1898)

The Logic of Vegetarianism (1899)

Thirty-nine Reasons Why I Am a Vegetarian (1903)

The Meat Fetish (1904)

The Apsley Cookery Book

The New Ethics (1907)

A Fleshless Diet (1910)

The Humanities of Diet (1914)

The Benefits of Vegetarianism (1927)

Living the Good Life (1954)

Ten Talents (1968)

Diet for a Small Planet (1971)

The Vegetarian Epicure (1972)

Moosewood Collective Cookbooks (1973)

The Farm Vegetarian Cookbook (1975)

Laurel's Kitchen (1976)

Moosewood Cookbook (1977)

Fit for Life (1985)

Diet for a New America (1987)

The Sexual Politics of Meat (1990)

Vegetarian Cooking for Everyone (1997)

The China Study (2005)

Skinny Bitch (2005)

Livestock's Long Shadow (2006)

The Bloodless Revolution (2006)

Of Victorians and Vegetarians (2007)

Eating Animals (2009)

Why We Love Dogs, Eat Pigs, and Wear Cows (2009)

The Vegan Studies Project (2015)

Animal (De)liberation (2016)

The End of Animal Farming (2018)

Vegetable Kingdom (2020)

Making a Stand for Animals (2022)

Meat Atlas (annual)

Ben & Esther's Vegan Jewish Deli

Cinnaholic

Crossroads Kitchen

Green Elephant Vegetarian Bistro

Greens Restaurant

Elizabeth's Gone Raw

Fruitful Food

Hiltl Restaurant

Little Pine

Little Tree Food

Miacucina

Moosewood Restaurant

Purezza

Quay Co-op

Slutty Vegan

Souley Vegan

The Sound Lounge

Vege Creek

Veggie Galaxy

Veggie Grill

Cranks

Food for Thought

InSpiral Lounge

Lentil as Anything

Minerva Café

New Riverside Cafe

Penny Cafeteria

Pink Peacock

The Hollow Reed

The Pitman Vegetarian Hotel

Cultured meat

Juice fasting

Low-carbon

Plant-based action plan

Plant-based diet

Planetary health

Sustainable diet

Vegaphobia

Vegetarian and vegan dog diet

Vegetarian and vegan symbolism

This Taoism-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information.

# History of Chinese cuisine


The history of Chinese cuisine is marked by both variety and change. The archaeologist and scholar Kwang-chih Chang says "Chinese people are especially preoccupied with food" and "food is at the center of, or at least it accompanies or symbolizes, many social interactions". Over the course of history, he says, "continuity vastly outweighs change." He explains basic organizing principles which go back to earliest times and give a continuity to the food tradition, principally that a normal meal is made up of a plant based products consisting of grains, starch (traditional Chinese: 飯; simplified Chinese: 饭; pinyin: fàn) vegetables (菜; cài) and/or fish (鱼; yú) based dishes with very little red meat (红肉; hóngròu) consumption.

Overview

The Sinologist Endymion Wilkinson has highlighted a succession of incremental and successive changes that fundamentally altered the "richness of ever-changing Chinese cuisine":

The expansion of Han culture from the upland stretches of the Yellow River across a huge and expanding geographical area with climate zones ranging from the tropical to the subarctic, each providing new ingredients and indigenous cooking traditions;

An elaborate but continually developing traditional medicine which saw food as the basis of good health ("Food was medicine and medicine, food");

Constantly shifting demands from elites – beginning with the imperial courts and provincial governors but eventually expanding to include rich landowners, "scholar-gourmands", and itinerant merchants – for specialised cuisines, however far away from home; and

Continuous absorption of diverse foreign influences, including the ingredients, cooking methods, and recipes from invading steppe nomads, European missionaries, and Japanese traders.

The philosopher and writer Lin Yutang was more relaxed:

Chinese cuisine as we now know it evolved gradually over the centuries as new food sources and techniques were introduced, discovered, or invented. Although many of the characteristics we think of as the most important appeared very early, others did not appear or did not become important until relatively late. The first chopsticks, for instance, were probably used for cooking, stirring the fire, and serving bits of food and were not initially used as eating utensils. They began to take on this role during the Han dynasty, but it was not until the Ming that they became ubiquitous for both serving and eating. It was not until the Ming that they acquired their present name (筷子, kuaizi) and their present shape. The wok may also have been introduced during the Han, but again its initial use was limited (to drying grains) and its present use (to stir-fry, as well as boiling, steaming, roasting, and deep-frying) did not develop until the Ming. The Ming also saw the adoption of new plants from the New World, such as maize, peanuts, and tobacco. Wilkinson remarks that to "somebody brought up on late twentieth century Chinese cuisine, Ming food would probably still seem familiar, but anything further back, especially pre-Tang would probably be difficult to recognize as 'Chinese'".

The "Silk Road" is the conventional term for the routes through Central Asia linking the Iranian plateau with western China; along this trade route passed exotic foodstuffs that greatly enlarged the potential for Chinese cuisines, only some of which preserve their foreign origin in the radical for "foreign" that remains in their name. "It would surprise many Chinese cooks to know that some of their basic ingredients were originally foreign imports," Frances Wood observes. "Sesame, peas, onions, coriander from Bactria, and cucumber were all introduced into China from the West during the Han dynasty".

Classifications

Not long after the expansion of the Chinese Empire during the Qin dynasty, Han writers noted the great differences in culinary practices among the different parts of their realm. These differences followed to a great extent the varying climates and availabilities of foodstuffs in China. Many writers tried their hands at classification, but since internal political boundaries over the centuries did not coincide with shifting cultural identities, there was no way to establish clear-cut or enduring classifications or ranking of foods and cooking styles. Different ethnic groups might occupy only small areas, but their cuisines were included in systematic lists from early on. Certain broad categorizations are useful, however:

Northern and southern cuisine

The primary and earliest distinction was between the earlier settled and relatively arid North China Plain and the rainier hill country south of the Yangtze River which were incorporated into the Chinese empire much later. First canals and now railroads and highways have blurred the distinction, but it remains true that rice predominates in southern cuisine and flour products (principally various noodles and dumplings) in the north.

Four Schools

The "Four Schools" refers to Shandong's (called after its former polity of Lu), Jiangsu's (called Yang after its most famous branch), Cantonese (called after its former polity of Yue), and Sichuan's (abbreviated to Chuan) cuisines.

The cooking styles of other areas was then arranged as branches of these four:

Beijing cuisine Imperial Aristocrat Tianjin (Jin)

Imperial

Aristocrat

Tianjin (Jin)

Northeastern Liao

Shanxi (Jin)

Huaiyang

Anhui (Hui)

Shanghai (Hu)

Zhejiang (Zhe)

Henan (Yu)

Hubei (E)

Chiuchow (Chaozhou)

Hakka (Kejia)

Fujian (Min)

Hainan (Qiong)

Hong Kong

Macanese

Guizhou (Qian)

Hunan (Xiang)

Jiangxi (Gan)

Shaanxi (Qin)

Yunnan (Dian)

Eight Schools

Eventually, four of these branches were recognized as distinct Chinese schools themselves: Hunan's cuisine (called Xiang for its local river), Fujian's (called Min for its native people), Anhui's (abbreviated as Hui), and Zhejiang's (abbreviated as Zhe).

History

Neolithic

Although no reliable written sources document this era of Chinese history, archaeologists are sometimes able to make deductions about food preparation and storage based on site excavations. Sometimes artifacts and (very rarely) actual preserved foodstuffs are discovered. In October 2005, the oldest noodles yet discovered were located at the Lajia site near the upper reaches of the Yellow River in Qinghai. The site has been associated with the Qijia culture. Over 4,000 years old, the noodles were made from foxtail and broomcorn millet.

Early dynastic times

Legendary accounts of the introduction of agriculture by Shennong credit him for first cultivating the "Five Grains", although the lists vary and very often include seeds like hemp and sesame principally used for oils and flavoring. The list in the Classic of Rites comprises soybeans, wheat, broomcorn and foxtail millet, and hemp. The Ming encyclopedist Song Yingxing properly noted that rice was not counted among the Five Grains cultivated by Shennong because southern China had not yet been settled or cultivated by the Han, but many accounts of the Five Grains do place rice on their lists.

The most common staple crops consumed during the Han dynasty were wheat, barley, rice, foxtail and broomcorn millet, and beans. Commonly eaten fruits and vegetables included chestnuts, pears, plums, peaches, melons, apricots, red bayberries, jujubes, calabash, bamboo shoots, mustard greens, and taro. Domesticated animals that were also eaten included chickens, Mandarin ducks, pigs, geese, sheep, camels, and dogs. Turtles and fish were taken from streams and lakes. The owl, pheasant, magpie, sika deer, and Chinese bamboo partridge were commonly hunted and consumed. Seasonings included sugar, honey, salt and soy sauce. Beer and yellow wine were regularly consumed, although baijiu was not available until much later.

During the Han dynasty, Chinese developed methods of food preservation for military rations during campaigns such as drying meat into jerky and cooking, roasting, and drying grain.

Chinese legends claim that the roasted, flat shaobing bread was brought back from the Xiyu (the Western Regions, a name for Central Asia) by the Han dynasty General Ban Chao, and that it was originally known as barbarian pastry (simplified Chinese: 胡饼; traditional Chinese: 胡餅; pinyin: húbǐng). The shaobing is believed to be descended from the hubing. Shaobing is believed to be related to the Persian and Central Asian naan and the Near Eastern pita. Central Asians made and sold sesame cakes in China during the Tang dynasty.

By the time of the Han dynasty, the different regions (which were not completely unified previously just after the end of Qin dynasty) and cuisines of China's people were linked by major canals and leading to greater complexity in the different regional cuisines. Not only is food seen as giving "qi", energy, but the food is also about maintaining yin and yang. ... food was judged for color, aroma, taste, and texture and a good meal was expected to balance the Four Natures ('hot', warm, cool, and 'cold') and the Five Tastes (pungent, sweet, sour, bitter, and salty). Salt was used as a preservative from early times, but in cooking was added in the form of soy sauce, and not at the table.

Southern and Northern dynasties

During the Northern and Southern dynasties non-Han people like the Xianbei of Northern Wei introduced their cuisine to northern China, and these influences continued up to the Tang dynasty, popularizing meat like mutton and dairy products like goat milk, yogurts, and kumis among even Han people. It was during the Song dynasty that Han Chinese developed an aversion to dairy products and abandoned the dairy foods introduced earlier. The Han Chinese rebel Wang Su, who received asylum in the Xianbei Northern Wei after fleeing from Southern Qi, at first could not stand eating dairy products like goat's milk and meat like mutton and had to consume tea and fish instead, but after a few years he was able to eat yogurt and lamb, and the Xianbei Emperor asked him which of the foods of China (Zhongguo) he preferred, fish versus mutton and tea versus yogurt. 280 recipes are found in the Jia Sixie's text the Qimin Yaoshu.

Tang dynasty

The fascination with exotics from the diverse range of the Tang empire and the search for plants and animals which promoted health and longevity were two of the factors encouraging diversity in Tang dynasty diet. During the Tang, the many common foodstuffs and cooking ingredients in addition to those already listed were barley, garlic, salt, turnips, soybeans, pears, apricots, peaches, apples, pomegranates, jujubes, rhubarb, hazelnuts, pine nuts, chestnuts, walnuts, yams, taro, etc. The various meats that were consumed included pork, chicken, lamb (especially preferred in the north), sea otter, bear (which was hard to catch, but there were recipes for steamed, boiled, and marinated bear), and even Bactrian camels. In the south along the coast meat from seafood was by default the most common, as the Chinese enjoyed eating cooked jellyfish with cinnamon, Sichuan pepper, cardamom, and ginger, as well as oysters with wine, fried squid with ginger and vinegar, horseshoe crabs and red crabs, shrimp, and pufferfish, which the Chinese called 'river piglet'.

Some foods were also off-limits, as the Tang court encouraged people not to eat beef (since the bull was a valuable draft animal), and from 831 to 833 Emperor Wenzong of Tang banned the slaughter of cattle on the grounds of his religious convictions to Buddhism. From the trade overseas and over land, the Chinese acquired golden peaches from Samarkand, date palms, pistachios, and figs from Persia, pine seeds and ginseng roots from Korea, and mangoes from Southeast Asia. In China, there was a great demand for sugar; during the reign of Harsha (r. 606–647) over North India, Indian envoys to Tang China brought two makers of sugar who successfully taught the Chinese how to cultivate sugarcane. Cotton also came from India as a finished product from Bengal, although it was during the Tang that the Chinese began to grow and process cotton, and by the Yuan dynasty it became the prime textile fabric in China.

During the earlier Northern and Southern dynasties (420–589), and perhaps even earlier, the drinking of tea became popular in southern China. (Tea comes from the leaf buds of Camellia sinensis, native to southwestern China.) Tea was viewed then as a beverage of tasteful pleasure and with pharmacological purpose as well. During the Tang dynasty, tea became synonymous with everything sophisticated in society. The Tang poet Lu Tong (790–835) devoted most of his poetry to his love of tea. The 8th-century author Lu Yu (known as the Sage of Tea) even wrote a treatise on the art of drinking tea, called the Classic of Tea (Chájīng). Tea was also enjoyed by Uyghur Turks; when riding into town, the first places they visited were the tea shops. Although wrapping paper had been used in China since the 2nd century BC, during the Tang dynasty the Chinese were using wrapping paper as folded and sewn square bags to hold and preserve the flavor of tea leaves.

Methods of food preservation continued to develop. The common people used simple methods of preservation, such as digging deep ditches and trenches, brining, and salting their foods. The emperor had large ice pits located in the parks in and around Chang'an for preserving food, while the wealthy and elite had their own smaller ice pits. Each year the emperor had laborers carve 1000 blocks of ice from frozen creeks in mountain valleys, each block with the dimension of 0.91 by 0.91 by 1.06 m (3.0 by 3.0 by 3.5 ft). There were many frozen delicacies enjoyed during the summer, especially chilled melon.

Liao, Song and Jurchen Jin dynasties

The Song saw a turning point. Twin revolutions in commerce and agriculture created an enlarged group of leisured and cultivated city dwellers with access to a great range of techniques and materials for whom eating became a self-conscious and rational experience. The food historian Michael Freeman argues that the Song developed a "cuisine" which was "derived from no single tradition but, rather, amalgamates, selects, and organizes the best of several traditions." "Cuisine" in this sense does not develop out of the cooking traditions of a single region, but "requires a sizable corps of critical adventuresome eaters, not bound by the tastes of their native region and willing to try unfamiliar food". Finally, "cuisine" is the product of attitudes which "give first place to the real pleasure of consuming food rather than to its purely ritualistic significance." This was neither the ritual or political cuisine of the court, nor the cooking of the countryside, but rather what we now think of as "Chinese food". In the Song, we find well-documented evidence for restaurants, that is, places where customers chose from menus, as opposed to taverns or hostels, where they had no choice. These restaurants featured regional cuisines. Gourmets wrote of their preferences, showing that food and eating had become a conscious aesthetic experience. These Song phenomena were not found until much later in Europe.

There are lists of entrées and food dishes in customer menus for restaurants and taverns, as well as for feasts at banquets, festivals and carnivals, and modest dining, most copiously in the memoir Dongjing Meng Hua Lu (Dreams of Splendor of the Eastern Capital). Many of the peculiar names for these dishes do not provide clues as to what types of food ingredients were used. However, the scholar Jacques Gernet, judging from the seasonings used, such as pepper, ginger, soya sauce, oil, salt, and vinegar, suggests that the cuisine of Hangzhou was not too different from the Chinese cuisine of today. Other additional seasonings and ingredients included walnuts, turnips, crushed Chinese cardamon kernels, fagara, olives, ginkgo nuts, citrus zest, and sesame oil.

Regional differences in ecology and culture produced different styles of cooking. In the turmoil of the Southern Song, refugees brought cooking traditions of regional cultures to the capital at Hangzhou. After the mass exodus from the north, people brought Henan-style cooking and foods (popular in the previous Northern Song capital at Kaifeng) to Hangzhou, which was blended with the cooking traditions of Zhejiang.

However, already in the Northern Song capital at Kaifeng there were restaurants that served southern Chinese cuisine. They catered to capital officials whose native provinces were in the southeast, and would have found northern cuisine too bland for their tastes. Song era documents provide the first use of the phrases nanshi, beishi, and chuanfan to refer specifically to southern (南食), northern (北食), and Sichuan (川饭) food, respectively. Restaurants were known for their specialties; for example, a restaurant in Hangzhou served only iced foods, while some restaurants catered to those who wanted either hot, warm, room temperature, or cold foods. Descendants of Kaifeng restaurant owners ran most of the restaurants in Hangzhou, but many other regional varieties were also represented. This included restaurants featuring highly spiced Sichuan cuisine; there were taverns featuring dishes and beverages from Hebei and Shandong, as well as those with coastal foods of shrimp and saltwater fish. The memory and patience of waiters had to be keen; in the larger restaurants, dinner parties with twenty or so dishes became a hassle if the server made even a slight mistake. If a guest complained, the waiter could be scolded, have his salary docked, or in extreme cases, even fired.

Along the wide avenue of the Imperial Way in Hangzhou, special breakfast items and delicacies were sold in the morning. They included fried tripe, pieces of mutton or goose, various soups, hot pancakes, steamed pancakes, and iced cakes. Noodle shops were also popular, and remained open all day and night along the Imperial Way. Night markets closed at the third night watch but reopened on the fifth, and also gained a reputation for staying open during winter storms and the darkest, rainiest days of winter.

Foods came to China from abroad, including raisins, dates, Persian jujubes, and grape wine. The Venetian visitor Marco Polo noted that rice wine was more common than grape wine, however. Although grape-based wine had been known in China since Han dynasty Chinese ventured into Hellenistic Central Asia, it was reserved for the elite. Other beverages included pear juice, lychee fruit juice, honey and ginger drinks, tea, and pawpaw juice. Dairy products, common in the Tang dynasty, became associated with foreign cultures, which explains the absence of cheese and milk in their diet. Beef was also rarely eaten, since the bull was an important draft animal. The main diet of the lower classes remained rice, pork, and salted fish. While restaurant dinner menus show they did not eat dog meat, the rich did consume an array of wild and domestic meats, such as chicken, shellfish, fallow deer, hare, partridge, pheasant, francolin, quail, fox, badger, clam, crab, among others. A claim that human meat was served in Hangzhou restaurants during the Song dynasty has been dismissed as unlikely. Freshwater fish from the nearby lake and river were also brought to market, while the West Lake provided geese and duck as well. Common fruits included melons, pomegranates, lychees, longans, golden oranges, jujube, quince, apricots and pears; in the region around Hangzhou alone, there were eleven kinds of apricots and eight kinds of pears.

Special and combination dishes included scented shellfish cooked in rice-wine, geese with apricots, lotus seed soup, spicy soup with mussels and fish cooked with plums, sweet soya soup, baked sesame buns stuffed with either sour bean filling or pork tenderloin, mixed vegetable buns, fragrant candied fruit, strips of ginger and fermented beanpaste, jujube-stuffed steamed dumplings, fried chestnuts, salted fermented bean soup, fruit cooked in scented honey, and 'honey crisps' of kneaded and baked honey, flour, mutton fat and pork lard. Dessert molds of oiled flour and sugared honey were shaped into girls' faces or statuettes of soldiers with full armor like door guards, and were called "likeness foods" (guoshi).

Su Shi a famous poet and statesmen at the time wrote extensively on the food and wine of the period. The legacy of his appreciation of food and gastronomy, as well as his later popularity can be seen in Dongpo pork, a dish named after him.[citation needed] An influential work which recorded the cuisine of this period is Shanjia Qinggong (山家清供; 'The Simple Foods of the Mountain Folk') by Lin Hong (林洪). This recipe book accounts the preparation of numerous dishes of common and fine cuisines. The dietary and culinary habits also changed greatly during this period, with many ingredients such as soy sauce and Central Asian influenced foods becoming widespread and the creation of important cookbooks such as the Shanjia Qinggong and the Wushi Zhongkuilu (Chinese: 吳氏中饋錄; pinyin: wushi zhoungkuilu) showing the respective esoteric foods and common household cuisine of the time.

Mongol Yuan dynasty

During the Yuan dynasty (1271–1368), contacts with the West also brought the introduction to China of a major food crop, sorghum, along with other foreign food products and methods of preparation. Hu Sihui, a Mongol doctor of Chinese medicine, compiled the Yinshan Zhengyao, a guide to cooking and health which incorporated Chinese and Mongol food practices. The recipes for the medicines are listed in a fashionable way which allows the readers to avoid lingering over the descriptions of the cooking methods. For instance, the description includes the step by step instructions for every ingredients and is followed by the cooking methods for these ingredients. Yunnan cuisine is unique in China for its cheeses like Rubing and Rushan cheese made by the Bai people, and its yogurt, the yogurt may have been due to a combination of Mongolian influence during the Yuan dynasty, the Central Asian settlement in Yunnan, and the proximity and influence of India and Tibet on Yunnan.

Ming dynasty

China during the Ming dynasty (1368–1644) became involved in a new global trade of goods, plants, animals, and food crops known as the Columbian Exchange. Although the bulk of imports to China were silver, the Chinese also purchased New World crops from the Spanish Empire. This included sweet potatoes, maize, and peanuts, foods that could be cultivated in lands where traditional Chinese staple crops—wheat, millet, and rice—couldn't grow, hence facilitating a rise in the population of China. In the Song dynasty (960–1279), rice had become the major staple crop of the poor; after sweet potatoes were introduced to China around 1560, it gradually became the traditional food of the lower classes. Because of the need for more food, prices went up and more of the lower class citizens died.

Qing dynasty

Jonathan Spence writes appreciatively that by the Qing dynasty the "culinary arts were treated as a part of the life of the mind: There was a Tao of food, just as there was Tao of conduct and one of literary creation." The opulence of the scholar-official Li Liweng was balanced by the gastronome Yuan Mei. To make the best rice, Li would send his maid to gather the dew from the flowers of the wild rose, cassia, or citron to add at the last minute; Li insisted that water from garden roses was too strong. Yuan Mei takes the position of the ascetic gourmet, in his gastronomic work the Suiyuan shidan, he wrote:

After such a meal, Yuan said, he would return home and make himself a bowl of congee.

The records of the Imperial Banqueting Court (光禄寺; 光祿寺; Guānglù Sì; Kuang-lu ssu) published in the late Qing period showed there were several levels of Manchu banquets (满席; 滿席; Mǎn xí) and Chinese banquets (汉席; 漢席; Hàn xí). The royal Manchu Han Imperial Feast is one that combined both traditions.

The specialty dish Dazhu gansi was highly commended by the Qing emperor Qianglong.

Post-dynastic China

After the end of the Qing dynasty, the cook previously employed by the Imperial Kitchens opened-up restaurants which allowed the people to experience many of the formerly inaccessible foods eaten by the Emperor and his court. However, with the beginning of the Chinese Civil War, many of the cooks and individuals knowledgeable in the cuisines of the period in China left for Hong Kong, Taiwan, and the United States. Among them were the likes of Irene Kuo who was an ambassador to the culinary heritage of China, teaching the Western world of the more refined aspects of Chinese cuisine.

Since the founding of the People's Republic of China, the nation has suffered from a series of major food supply problems under the Chinese Communist Party. Poor, countryside provinces like Henan and Gansu experienced the worst. By January 1959 the food supply for residents in Beijing was reduced to 1 cabbage per household per day. Many peasants suffered from malnutrition, and at the same time increasing the amount they handed over to the state. Beginning in 1960, the Great Chinese Famine contributed to more problems due to bad government policies. During this time there was little to no advancement in the culinary tradition. Many fled to neighbouring Hong Kong and Taiwan to avoid starvation.

In Beijing in the 1990s, a Communist-style cuisine, which is also called Cultural Revolution cuisine or CR cuisine has also been popular. Other recent innovations include the Retro-Maoist cuisine, which cashed in on the 100th anniversary of Mao Zedong's birthday, whether it was officially endorsed or not. The menu includes items such as cornmeal cakes and rice gruel. In February 1994 the Wall Street Journal wrote an article about Retro-Maoist cuisine being a hit in China. Owners of a CR-style restaurant said, "We're not nostalgic for Mao, per se. We're nostalgic for our youth." The Chinese government has denied any involvement with Retro-Maoist cuisine.

One of the cuisines to benefit during the 1990s was the Chinese Islamic cuisine. The cuisines of other cultures in China have benefited from recent changes in government policy. During the Great Leap Forward and Cultural revolution of the 1970s, the government pressured the Hui people, to adopt Han Chinese culture. The national government has since abandoned efforts to impose a homogeneous Chinese culture. In order to revive their rare cuisine, the Huis began labeling their food as "traditional Hui cuisine". The revival effort has met with some success; for example, in 1994 the "Yan's family eatery" earned 15,000 yuan net income per month. This was well above the national salary average at that time.

Crocodiles were eaten by Vietnamese while they were taboo and off limits for Chinese. Vietnamese women who married Chinese men adopted the Chinese taboo.

Famous quotes

A common saying attempts to summarize the entire cuisine in one sentence, although it now rather outdated (Hunan and Sichuan are now more famous even within China for their spicy food) and numerous variants have sprung up:

Another popular traditional phrase, discussing regional strengths, singles out Cantonese cuisine as a favorite:

The other references praise Suzhou's silk industry and tailors; Hangzhou's scenery; and Liuzhou's forests, whose fir trees were valued for coffins in traditional Chinese burials before cremation became popular. Variants usually keep the same focus for Canton and Guilin but sometimes suggest 'playing' in Suzhou instead (it is famed within China both for its traditional gardens and beautiful women) and 'living' (住) in Hangzhou.

See also

A Bite of China – a seven-part CCTV television series

Flexitarianism

^ Hajeb, P.; Jinap, S. (12 May 2015). "Umami Taste Components and Their Sources in Asian Foods". Critical Reviews in Food Science and Nutrition. 55 (6): 778–791. doi:10.1080/10408398.2012.678422. ISSN 1040-8398. PMID 24915349.

^ Chang Kwang-chih (ed.) Food in Chinese Culture: Anthropological and Historical Perspectives, pp. 15–20. Yale Univ. Press (New Haven, Connecticut), 1977.

^ Lin Yutang. The Importance of Living, p. 46. John Day (New York), 1937. Also quoted in Sterckx, Roel. Of Tripod and Palate: Food, Politics, and Religion in Traditional China, p. 6. Palgrave Macmillan (New York), 2005.

^ a b Wilkinson, Endymion. Chinese History: A Manual, pp. 646–47. Harvard Univ. Press (Cambridge, Mass.), 2000.

^ Wood, Frances. The Silk Road: Two Thousand Years in the Heart of Asia, p. 59. 2002.

^ Kansas Asia Scholars. "Regional Chinese Cuisine Archived 5 October 2011 at the Wayback Machine".

^ BBC. "Oldest Noodles Unearthed in China". 12 October 2005.

^ Chinapage. "Ancient sites in China Archived 17 July 2009 at the Wayback Machine".

^ a b Song, pp. 3–4.

^ Wang (1982), 52.

^ Wang (1982), 53 & 206.

^ Wang (1982), 57–58.

^ Hansen (2000), 119–121.

^ Wang (1982), 206; Hansen (2000), 119.

^ Anderson (1988), p. 52.

^ Huang, H. T. (2000). Fermentations and Food Science, Volume 6. Cambridge University Press. p. 474. ISBN 0-521-65270-7. Retrieved 24 April 2014.

^ Anderson (1988), pp. 143, 144, 218.

^ Simoons, Frederick J. (1990). Food in China: A Cultural and Historical Inquiry. CRC Press. p. 89. ISBN 0-8493-8804-X. Retrieved 24 April 2014.

^ Free China Review, Volume 45, Issues 7–12. W.Y. Tsao. 1995. p. 66. Retrieved 24 April 2014.

^ Charles Holcombe (January 2001). The Genesis of East Asia: 221 B.C. – A.D. 907. University of Hawaii Press. pp. 129–. ISBN 978-0-8248-2465-5.

^ Schafer, Edward H. (1963). The Golden Peaches of Samarkand: A Study of Tʻang Exotics (illustrated, reprint, revised ed.). University of California Press. p. 29. Retrieved 24 April 2014.

^ Roberts, J.A.G. (2004). China to Chinatown. Globalities. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9781861892270. Retrieved 10 December 2015.

^ Anderson (1988), p. 267.

^ Anderson (1988), p. 80.

^ Pearce, Scott; Spiro, Audrey G.; Ebrey, Patricia Buckley, eds. (2001). Culture and Power in the Reconstitution of the Chinese Realm, 200-600. Vol. 200 of Harvard East Asian monographs (illustrated ed.). Harvard Univ Asia Center. p. 22. ISBN 0-674-00523-6. Retrieved 24 April 2014.

^ LEWIS, Mark Edward (2009). CHINA BETWEEN EMPIRES. Vol. 2 of History of Imperial China (illustrated ed.). Harvard University Press. p. 126. ISBN 978-0-674-02605-6. Retrieved 24 April 2014.

^ Huang, H. T. (2000). Fermentations and Food Science, Volume 6. Cambridge University Press. p. 511. ISBN 0-521-65270-7. Retrieved 24 April 2014.

^ Choo, Jessey Jiun-chyi; et al. (2014), "Everyday Life", Early Medieval China: A Sourcebook, New York: Columbia University Press, p. 434, ISBN 978-0-231-15987-6.

^ Greg Woolf (2007). Ancient civilizations: the illustrated guide to belief, mythology, and art. Barnes & Noble. p. 234. ISBN 978-1-4351-0121-0.

^ Benn, Charles. (2002). China's Golden Age: Everyday Life in the Tang Dynasty. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-517665-0. p. 122

^ a b Benn, 120.

^ Benn, 121.

^ Benn, 125.

^ Benn, 123.

^ Schafer, 1–2.

^ Sen, 38–40.

^ Adshead, 76, 83–84.

^ Adshead, 83

^ Ebrey, Cambridge Illustrated History of China, 120.

^ Ebrey (1999), 95.

^ Schafer p. 20

^ a b Needham, Volume 5, Part 1, 122

^ Benn, 126–127.

^ a b c Benn, 126.

^ a b c Gernet, 134.

^ Michael Freeman Ch 4 "Sung," in K.C. Chang, ed., Food in Chinese Culture (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1978), pp. 143–145.

^ a b c d e f g h Gernet, 133.

^ West, 73, footnote 17.

^ a b c d West, 86.

^ a b West, 70.

^ a b Gernet, 137.

^ a b West, 93.

^ Gernet, 133–134

^ a b Gernet, 183–184

^ Gernet, 184.

^ a b c West, 73.

^ Gernet, 134–135.

^ Gernet, 138.

^ Gernet, 184–185.

^ a b c d Gernet, 135.

^ a b c Gernet, 136.

^ Paul Freedman; Joyce E. Chaplin; Ken Albala (24 November 2014). Food in Time and Place: The American Historical Association Companion to Food History. University of California Press. pp. 257–. ISBN 978-0-520-95934-7.

^ West, 73–74.

^ Rossabi, 78.

^ West, 75.

^ West, 75, footnote 25.

^ West, 89.

^ a b Daria Berg: Chl, Chloë Starr, 2008 The Quest for Gentility in China Routledge, pp. 181–182. ISBN 0-415-43586-2.

^ Höllmann, Thomas O. (2014). The land of the five flavors: a cultural history of Chinese cuisine. Karen Margolis. New York. ISBN 978-0-231-53654-7. OCLC 868132659.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)

^ Paul D. Buell, E. N. Anderson and Charles Perry. A Soup for the Qan Chinese Dietary Medicine of the Mongol Era as Seen in Hu Sihui's Yinshan Zhengyao: Introduction, Translation, Commentary, and Chinese Text. (Leiden, The Netherlands: Brill, Sir Henry Wellcome Asian Series, 2nd rev. and expanded, 2010). ISBN 90-474-4470-1 (electronic). ISSN 1570-1484.

^ John Makeham (2008). China: The World's Oldest Living Civilization Revealed. Thames & Hudson. p. 271. ISBN 978-0-500-25142-3.

^ Sabban, Françoise (1986). "Court cuisine in fourteenth-century imperial China: Some culinary aspects of hu sihui's Yinshan Zhengyao". Food and Foodways: Explorations in the History and Culture of. Great Britain: Harwood Academic Publishers GmbH: 161–196. ISSN 1542-3484.

^ Anderson (1988), pp. 91, 178, 207.

^ Ebrey, 1999, p. 211

^ Crosby, 2003, pp. 198–201

^ Gernet, 1962

^ Crosby, 2003, p. 200

^ Spence, "The Ch’ing", in Chang, Chinese Food and Culture, pp. 271–274

^ Spence, Jonathan D. [1993]. Chinese Roundabout: Essays in History and Culture. W. W. Norton & Company. ISBN 0-393-30994-0.

^ Sen, Mayukh (16 March 2017). "How America Lost 'The Key to Chinese Cooking'". FOOD52.

^ a b Jin, Qiu. Perry, Elizabeth J. The Culture of Power: The Lin Biao Incident in the Cultural Revolution. [1999] (1999). Stanford University Press. ISBN 0-8047-3529-8.

^ Sasha Gong and Scott D. Seligman. The Cultural Revolution Cookbook: Simple, Healthy Recipes from China's Countryside. (Hong Kong: Earnshaw Books, 2011). ISBN 978-988-19984-6-0.

^ a b Tang, Xiaobing. Chinese Modern: The Heroic and the Quotidian. [2000] (2000). Duke University Press. ISBN 0-8223-2447-4.

^ Gillette, Maris Boyd. [2000] (2000). Between Mecca and Beijing: Modernization and Consumption Among Urban Chinese. Stanford University Press. ISBN 0-8047-4685-0.

^ Erica J. Peters (2012). Appetites and Aspirations in Vietnam: Food and Drink in the Long Nineteenth Century. Rowman Altamira. pp. 142–. ISBN 978-0-7591-2075-4.

^ Yhnkzq.com. "Yhnkzq.com verification of phrase existence from ancient China times Archived 18 July 2011 at the Wayback Machine." "Yangjing." Retrieved on 2007-09-30. This phrase has been consulted with a HK culinary experts in September 2007. Despite the many versions floating around on the internet, this is believed to be the original since it fits the best.

References

For references on specific foods and cuisines, please see the relevant articles.

Anderson, E. N. (1988). The Food of China (illustrated, reprint, revised ed.). Yale University Press. ISBN 0-300-04739-8. Retrieved 24 April 2014.

Paul D. Buell, Eugene N. Anderson Husihui, A Soup for the Qan: Chinese Dietary Medicine of the Mongol Era as Seen in Hu Szu-Hui's Yin-Shan Cheng-Yao: Introduction, Translation, Commentary and Chinese Text (London; New York: Kegan Paul International, 2000). ISBN 0-7103-0583-4.

Kwang-chih Chang, ed., Food in Chinese Culture: Anthropological and Historical Perspectives (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1977). ISBN 0-300-01938-6.

Key Rey Chong, Cannibalism in China (Wakefield, New Hampshire: Longwoord Academic, 1990).

Coe, Andrew. Chop Suey: A Cultural History of Chinese Food in the United States. (New York: Oxford University Press, 2009). ISBN 978-0-19-533107-3. ISBN 0-19-533107-9.

Crosby, Alfred W., Jr. (2003). The Columbian Exchange: Biological and Cultural Consequences of 1492; 30th Anniversary Edition. Westport: Praeger Publishers. ISBN 0-275-98092-8.

Judith Farquhar. Appetites: Food and Sex in Postsocialist China. (Durham, NC: Duke University Press; Body, Commodity, Text Series, 2002). ISBN 0-8223-2906-9.

Gernet, Jacques (1962). Daily Life in China on the Eve of the Mongol Invasion, 1250–1276. Translated by H. M. Wright. Stanford: Stanford University Press. ISBN 0-8047-0720-0.

H.T. Huang (Huang Xingzong). Fermentations and Food Science. (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, Part 5 of Biology and Biological Technology, Volume 6 Science and Civilisation in China, 2000). ISBN 0-521-65270-7.

Lee, Jennifer 8. The Fortune Cookie Chronicles: Adventures in the World of Chinese Food. (New York, NY: Twelve, 2008). ISBN 978-0-446-58007-6.

Needham, Joseph (1980). Science and Civilisation in China: Volume 5, Chemistry and Chemical Technology, Part 4, Spagyrical Discovery and Invention: Apparatus, Theories and Gifts. Rpr. Taipei: Caves Books, 1986.

Roberts, J. A. G. China to Chinatown: Chinese Food in the West. (London: Reaktion, Globalities, 2002). ISBN 1-86189-133-4.

Schafer, Edward H. (1963). The Golden Peaches of Samarkand: A study of T’ang Exotics. University of California Press. Berkeley and Los Angeles. paperback edition: 1985. ISBN 0-520-05462-8.

Song, Yingxing, translated with preface by E-Tu Zen Sun and Shiou-Chuan Sun. (1966). T'ien-Kung K'ai-Wu: Chinese Technology in the Seventeenth Century. University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press.

Swislocki, Mark. Culinary Nostalgia: Regional Food Culture and the Urban Experience in Shanghai. (Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 2009). ISBN 978-0-8047-6012-6.

Wang, Zhongshu. (1982). Han Civilization. Translated by K.C. Chang and Collaborators. New Haven and London: Yale University Press. ISBN 0-300-02723-0.

West, Stephen H. Playing With Food: Performance, Food, and The Aesthetics of Artificiality in The Sung and Yuan. Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies (Volume 57, Number 1, 1997): 67–106.

David Y. H. Wu and Chee Beng Tan. Changing Chinese Foodways in Asia. (Hong Kong: Chinese University Press, 2001). ISBN 962-201-914-5.

Wu, David Y. H., and Sidney C. H. Cheung. ed., The Globalization of Chinese Food. (Richmond, Surrey: Curzon, Anthropology of Asia Series, 2002). ISBN 0-7007-1403-0.

Further reading

"【食之有道】秋日滋補與「陰陽調和」的中國哲學觀" [Autumn revitalizing soup and the Chinese philosophical view of "Yin and Yang balance"]. 香港01 (in Traditional Chinese). 17 August 2018. Retrieved 7 October 2024.

External links

History of Chinese Cuisine (its sources) in German

History

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

# History of Japanese cuisine


View a machine-translated version of the Japanese article.

Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate, is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia.

Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article.

You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing Japanese Wikipedia article at [[:ja:日本料理#歴史]]; see its history for attribution.

You may also add the template {{Translated|ja|日本料理#歴史}} to the talk page.

For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation.

Nagoya

Okinawa

Yōshoku

Main dishes

Desserts

Noodles

Sashimi

Stir frying

Double steaming

Red cooking

List of Japanese cooking utensils

Etiquette

Kaiseki

New Year

This article traces the history of cuisine in Japan. Foods and food preparation by the early Japanese Neolithic settlements can be pieced together from archaeological studies, and reveals paramount importance of rice and seafood since early times.

The Kofun period (3rd to 7th centuries) is shrouded in uncertainty. Some entries in Japan's earliest written chronicles hint at a picture of food habits from the time of the formation of the imperial dynasty. When Buddhism became widely accepted with the rise of the Soga clan, a taboo on eating meat (especially mammals) became common practice, although wild game was still hunted by impoverished mountain people, and would be eaten by townspeople when the opportunity arose.

Treatises on ceremony, tax documents, and works of fiction allows one to make a list of food ingredients used, and basic preparation methods in the Heian period. However, anything like recipes from the Middle Ages are a rare commodity in Japan or any country.

Records throughout Middle Ages may give some idea of the dishes being enjoyed, but do not give details such as to provide accurate recipes.

Once Japan entered the modern Edo period, there were rich records of foods and cuisine from commoners (i.e., non-samurai), who were largely literate, and produced a great deal of wood-block printed literature.

Early history (before 794)

Following the Jōmon period (14,000–300 BCE), Japanese society shifted from semi-sedentary hunter-gatherer lifestyle to an agricultural society. This was the period in which rice cultivation began, having been introduced by China around the third century BCE. Rice was commonly boiled plain and called gohan or meshi, and, as cooked rice has since been the preferred staple of the meal, the terms are used as synonyms for the word "meal". Peasants often mixed millet with rice, especially in mountainous regions where rice did not proliferate.

During the Kofun period (300 to 538 CE), Chinese culture was introduced into Japan from Korea. As such, Buddhism became influential on Japanese culture. After the 6th century, Japan directly pursued the imitation of Chinese culture of the Tang dynasty (618 to 907). It was this influence that marked the taboos on the consumption of meat in Japan. In 675 CE, Emperor Tenmu decreed a prohibition on the consumption of cattle, horses, dogs, monkeys, and chickens during the 4th-9th months of the year; to break the law would mean a death sentence. Monkey was eaten prior to this time but only in a ritualistic style for medicinal purposes. Chickens were often domesticated as pets,[citation needed] while cattle and horses were rare and more valued for providing labor and transportation. A cow or horse would be ritually sacrificed on the first day of rice paddy cultivation, a ritual introduced from China. Emperor Tenmu's decree, however, did not ban the consumption of deer or wild boar, which were important to the Japanese diet at that time.

Heian period (794-1185)

The Heian Period (794 to 1185) in the 8th century saw many additional decrees made by emperors and empresses banning the killing of any animals. In 752 CE, Empress Kōken decreed a ban on fishing but made a promise that adequate rice would be given to fishermen whose livelihood would have otherwise been destroyed. In 927 CE, regulations were enacted that stated that any government official or member of nobility that ate meat was deemed unclean for three days and could not participate in Shinto observances at the imperial court.

It was also the influence of Chinese cultures through Korea that brought chopsticks to Japan early in this period. Chopsticks at this time were used by nobility at banquets; they were not used as everyday utensils however, as hands were still commonly used to eat. Metal spoons were also used during the 8th and 9th centuries, but only by the nobility. Dining tables were also introduced to Japan at this time. Commoners used a legless, rough-carved table called a oshiki, while nobility used a lacquered table with legs called a zen. Each person used his own table. Lavish banquets for the nobility would have multiple tables for each individual based upon the number of dishes presented.

Along with the addition of chopsticks, Chinese tea was also introduced to Japan during the Heian Period. Although first recorded in Japan during the Nara Period (710 to 784), tea grew popular after Buddhist Monks Saicho and Kukai traveled back to Japan from China bearing tea seeds and leaves in 805 CE. Tea became popular in aristocratic circles before spreading to commoners, and as farmers began to commercially grow and farm tea plants around the time of 805 CE, tea began to explode in popularity.

Upon the decline of the Tang dynasty in the 9th century, Japan made a move toward its individuality in culture and cuisine. The abandonment of the spoon as a dining utensil – which was retained in Korea – is one of the marked differences, and commoners were now eating with chopsticks as well. Trade continued with China and Korea but influence en masse from outside Japan would not be seen again until the 19th century. The 10th and 11th centuries marked a level of refinement of cooking and etiquette found in the culture of the Heian nobility. Experienced cooks began to develop their own unique recipes rather than simply copy foreign dishes. Court banquets were common and lavish; garb for nobility during these events remained in the Chinese style which differentiated them from the plain clothes of commoners.

The dishes consumed after the 9th century included grilled fish and meat (yakimono), simmered food (nimono), steamed foods (mushimono), soups made from chopped vegetables, fish or meat (atsumono), jellied fish (nikogori) simmered with seasonings, sliced raw fish served in a vinegar sauce (namasu), vegetables, seaweed or fish in a strong dressing (aemono), and pickled vegetables (tsukemono) that were cured in salt to cause lactic fermentation. Other snacks included fruit, nuts, and rice cakes, which were made with rice and different vegetables. Oil and fat were avoided almost universally in cooking. Sesame oil was used, but rarely, as it was of great expense to produce.

Documents from the Heian nobility note that fish and wild fowl were common fare along with vegetables. These Heian nobles ate twice a day, once at 10 AM and once at 4 PM. Their banquet settings consisted of a bowl of rice and soup, along with chopsticks, a spoon, and three seasonings which were salt, vinegar and hishio, which was a fermentation of soybeans, wheat, sake and salt. A fourth plate was present for mixing the seasonings to desired flavor for dipping the food.

The four types of food present at a banquet consisted of dried foods (himono), fresh foods (namamono), fermented or dressed food (kubotsuki), and desserts (kashi). Dried fish and fowl were thinly sliced (e.g. salted salmon, pheasant, steamed and dried abalone, dried and grilled octopus), while fresh fish, shellfish and fowl were sliced raw in vinegar sauce or grilled (e.g. carp, sea bream, salmon, trout, pheasant). Kubotsuki consisted of small balls of fermented sea squirt, fish or giblets along with jellyfish and aemono. Desserts would have included Chinese cakes, and a variety of fruits and nuts including pine nuts, dried chestnuts, acorns, jujube, pomegranate, peach, apricot, persimmon and citrus. The meal would be ended with sake.

Kamakura period (1192-1333)

The Kamakura period marked a large political change in Japan. Prior to the Kamakura period, the samurai were little more than guards and enforcers of the nobility, who monopolized political power. In time, the samurai co-opted their masters to usurp control of Japan's legal and political system, with a military dictatorship being established in 1192 in Kamakura. Once the position of power had been exchanged, the role of the court banquets changed. The court cuisine which had prior to this time emphasized flavor and nutritional aspects changed to a highly ceremonial and official role.

Minamoto no Yoritomo, the first shōgun, made a point of punishing samurai who followed the earlier showy banquet style of the nobility. An official banquet, the ōban, was instituted for high-ranking samurai and shogunate officials. The ōban originally referred to a luncheon on festival days attended by soldiers and guards during the Heian period and was considered an important practice to the warrior class. The menu usually consisted of simple dried abalone, jellyfish aemono, pickled ume called umeboshi, salt and vinegar for seasoning, and rice. Later in the period, the honzen-ryōri banquet became popularized.

The cuisine of the samurai came distinctly from their peasant roots. The meals prepared emphasized simplicity while being substantial. The cuisine avoided refinement, ceremony and luxury, and shed all further Chinese influence. One specific example is the change from wearing traditional Chinese garb to a distinct clothing style based on commoners' garb, but with refinements to emphasize the wearer's importance. This style evolved into the kimono by the end of the Middle Ages.

The Buddhist vegetarian philosophy strengthened during the Kamakura period as it began to spread to the peasants. Those who were involved in the trade of slaughtering animals for food or leather came under legal discrimination. Those practicing this trade were considered in opposition to the Buddhist philosophy of not taking life, while under the Shinto philosophy they were considered defiled. This discrimination intensified and eventually led to the creation of a separate caste, the burakumin.

Sengoku, Edo, Meiji, and Showa Jidai

Jesuit Catholic Portuguese missionary João Rodrigues said that Japanese refused to eat lard, hens, duck, pigs, cow, horse, and ass, and refused to eat their own livestock and only sometimes hunted wild animals during feasts, in contrast to the Chinese who ate geese, hens, domestic duck, bacon, lard, pork, cow, horse and ass. Catholic Christians visiting Japan were accused of eating dogs, horses and cattle by Japanese Buddhist monks. The book "comparison between European and Japanese Cultures" was written by Luís Fróis (1532–1597), a Jesuit Father in 1585. He said "Europeans relish hens, quails, pies, and blancmanges, Japanese prefer wild dogs, cranes, large monkeys, cats, and uncooked seaweed [for eating] ... We do not eat dog meat but beef; Japanese do not eat beef but dog meat as medicine". the Japanese also ate raw, sliced boar meat, unlike Europeans who cooked it in stew. Animal milk like cow milk was despised and abhorred and meat eating was avoided by the Japanese in the 19th century. When one Japanese, Marsukara wanted to feed cow milk to babies after he was told western babies were fed it, he imported from Shanghai milking equipment at the French consul's advice and purchased Nagasaki cows. He never drank it himself. Beef was not eaten as regular food in Japan until the Meiji restoration. Meat eating was forbidden by Buddhism in Japan. Meat eating was an abhorred western practice, according to one Samurai family's daughter who never ate meat. Shintoism and Buddhism both contributed to the vegetarian diet of medieval Japanese while 0.1 ounces of meat was the daily amount consumed by the average Japanese in 1939. Japan lacked arable land for livestock so meat eating was outlawed several times by Japan's rulers. In 675 a law was passed stating that from late spring to early autumn, dog, chicken, monkey and beef meat was not allowed for that period of time. Other bans were implemented. Japan mostly got meat from hunting wild animals but wild animals like boar and deer decreased as farmers cut down forests for farms since the population grew. Japan started adopting meat based diets from Europeans like the Dutch who were taller than them in the 18th century and then when the Meiji emperor ate meat in public on 24 January 1872. Then Japan started importing Korean beef with a 13 times increase in Tokyo's beef consumption in 5 years. The average Japanese conscript was weak, with a minimum height at 4 feet 11 inches; 16% of conscripts were shorter than that height and were generally thin. Japan needed to boost its army strength at the time when it was modernizing. Japan then saw American soldiers eating bacon, steaks and hamburgers after the Second World War when America occupied Japan. Japan's McDonald's chief Den Fujita said "If we eat hamburgers for a thousand years, we will become blond. And when we become blond we can conquer the world." Beef was however eaten as medicine in both China and Japan as a special exemption to the ban before the 19th century. The ban originated in the 10th century AD.

See also

History of sushi

History of meat consumption in Japan

^ "Road of rice plant". National Science Museum of Japan. Archived from the original on 2015-04-05. Retrieved 2011-03-24.

^ Kiple & Ornelas 2000, 1176.

^ Ishige 2001, 46–48.

^ Tajima, Atsushi (2025). "Refinement of Poultry Standing in Japan Based on Recent Anthropo-ornithological Perspectives". The Journal of Poultry Science. 62. doi:10.2141/jpsa.2025029. PMC 12451042.

^ Ishige 2001, 53–54.

^ Ishige 2001, 55–56.

^ Ishige 2001, 67 "chopsticks originated in ancient China, spreading from the Yeelow River basin, which was then the center of Chinese civilization, to surrounding regions from about fifth century BCE."

^ The International Institute of Hashi Archived 2012-03-25 at the Wayback Machine

^ [1]Osaka Kyoiku University 箸の伝来 "Transmission of chopsticks"

^ "[[University of Marketing and Distribution Sciences]] Mori Takayuki (professor of Department of Commercial Science)". Retrieved 2012-05-05.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link)

^ "[[Komazawa Women's University]] "箸と日本人 (Chopsticks and Japanese)". Archived from the original on 2013-07-28. Retrieved 2012-05-05.

^ Ishige 2001, 67–69.

^ Ishige 2001, 71

^ "Nara Period". www.japanpitt.pitt.edu. Retrieved 2024-04-29.

^ "History of Tea | Learn more about tea | Marukyu Koyamaen". www.marukyu-koyamaen.co.jp. Retrieved 2024-04-29.

^ Ishige 2001, 50–51.

^ a b Cartwright, Mark (20 June 2017). "Food & Agriculture in Ancient Japan". World History Encyclopedia. Retrieved 2024-04-15.

^ Ishige 2001, 71–72.

^ Ishige 2001, 73–74.

^ Ishige 2001, 51.

^ Ishige 2001, 74–75.

^ Ishige 2001, 51–52.

^ Ishige 2001, 58.

^ Cwiertka, Katarzyna Joanna (2006). Modern Japanese Cuisine: Food, Power and National Identity (illustrated ed.). Reaktion Books. p. 26. ISBN 1861892985. ... by the late sixteenth century the eating of the meat of domesticated ... In keeping with their customs the Japanese abominate all this, for on no ...

^ SHIMIZU, AKIRA (2010). "4 Meat-eating in the Kōjimachi District of Edo". In Assmann, Stephanie; Rath, Eric C. (eds.). Japanese Foodways, Past and Present (illustrated ed.). University of Illinois Press. p. 94. ISBN 978-0252077524. 4 Especially notable is the eating of dog meat, to which Fróis added the statement: "We do not eat dog meat but beef; Japanese do not eat beef but dog meat ...

^ Reischauer, Haru Matsukata (1986). Samurai and Silk: A Japanese and American Heritage (illustrated, reprint, revised ed.). Harvard University Press. p. 67. ISBN 067478801X. A Japanese and American Heritage Haru Matsukata Reischauer ... The Japanese of the time did not eat meat and abominated milk. In fact, Matsukata himself ...

^ Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of North America (1904). Official Journal, Volume 5. p. 115. The Japanese are not beef eaters . ... abominated, banned ? and American packers have never sold For, e'en as Judas in the days of old, bacon to any ...

^ United States. Congress (1955). Congressional Record: Proceedings and Debates of the ... Congress. U.S. Government Printing Office. p. 3796. He proposed further that Japan form internal trade organizations to promote the exchange ... eat meat, be clad in new suits and enjoy drama and the movies ...

^ New Japan, Volume 6. Mainichi Newspapers. 1953. p. 315. Festivals In Japan came in touch with Western natural science . ... Since the introduction of Buddhism which forbids meat - eating, the Japanese people ...

^ Bulletin, Issue 31. Bulletin, National Council for the Social Studies. The National Council for the Social Studies. 1959. p. 73. The daughter of an old Samurai family describes life and customs in a Japan so little touched by western ways as to abominate the eating of meat .

^ National Council for the Social Studies (1955). Bulletin - National Council for the Social Studies, Issues 29-31. Bulletin - National Council for the Social Studies, National Council for the Social Studies. National Council for the Social Studies. p. 73. The daughter of an old Samurai family describes life and customs in a Japan so little touched by western ways as to abominate the eating of meat .

^ ZARASKA, MARTA (March 7, 2016). "How Japan went from being an almost entirely vegetarian country to a huge consumer of meat". Business Insider India.

References

Heibonsha (1969) [1968]. 世界百科事典(Sekai hyakka jiten). (world encyclopedia, in Japanese)

Ishige, Naomichi (2001). The History and Culture of Japanese Food. New York: Columbia University Press. ISBN 0710306571.

Kiple, Kenneth F.; Ornelas, Kriemhild (2000). The Cambridge World History of Food. Vol. 2. Cambridge, UK: ColuCambridge University Press. ISBN 0521402166. Archived from the original on 2012-05-04.

History

Caribbean

Caucasian

Central

Levantine

South North Indian South Indian

North Indian

South Indian

Balkan

Central

Eastern Caucasian

Caucasian

Australian

New Zealand

Global

Latin American

Mediterranean

Middle Eastern

Afghan

Albanian

Algerian

American Puerto Rican

Puerto Rican

Angolan

Antarctic

Argentine

Armenian

Australian

Austrian

Azerbaijani

Bahraini

Bangladeshi

Barbadian

Belarusian

Belgian

Belizean

Beninese

Bhutanese

Bolivian

Bosnian-Herzegovinian

Botswana

Brazilian

British Anguillia Channel Islands English Gibraltarian Northern Irish Saint Helena Scottish Welsh

Anguillia

Channel Islands

English

Gibraltarian

Northern Irish

Saint Helena

Scottish

Bruneian

Bulgarian

Burkinabé

Burmese

Burundian

Cambodian

Cameroonian

Canadian Acadian Québécois

Acadian

Québécois

Central African Republic

Chadian

Chilean

Chinese Beijing Cantonese Hong Kong Hunan Macanese Shandong Sichuan Tibetan Xinjiang

Beijing

Cantonese

Hong Kong

Macanese

Shandong

Sichuan

Tibetan

Xinjiang

Colombian

Congolese

Croatian

Cypriot

Czech Moravian

Moravian

Danish Faroese Greenlandic

Faroese

Greenlandic

Djiboutian

Dominican

Dominican Republic

East Timorese

Ecuadorian

Egyptian

Emirati

Equatorial Guinean

Eritrean

Estonian

Ethiopian

Fijian

Filipino Kapampangan

Kapampangan

Finnish

French Corsican La Réunion French Guianan Occitan

Corsican

La Réunion

French Guianan

Occitan

Gabonese

Gambian

Georgian

German

Ghanaian

Greek Cretan Epirotic Greek Macedonian Heptanesean

Cretan

Epirotic

Greek Macedonian

Heptanesean

Guatemalan

Guinea-Bissauan

Guinean

Guyana

Haitian

Honduran

Hungarian

Icelandic

Indian Andhra Arunachali Assamese Bengali Bihari Chhattisgarhi Goan Gujarati Haryanvi Kashmiri Jharkhandi Karnataka Kerala Maharashtrian Manipuri Meghalayan Mizo Naga Odia Punjabi Rajasthani Sikkimese Sindhi Tamil Telangana Tripuri Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhandi

Andhra

Arunachali

Assamese

Bengali

Bihari

Chhattisgarhi

Gujarati

Haryanvi

Kashmiri

Jharkhandi

Karnataka

Kerala

Maharashtrian

Manipuri

Meghalayan

Punjabi

Rajasthani

Sikkimese

Sindhi

Telangana

Tripuri

Uttar Pradesh

Uttarakhandi

Indonesian Acehnese Balinese Banjar Batak Betawi Gorontalese Indo Javanese Madurese Makassar Minahasan Minangkabau Palembangese Sundanese

Acehnese

Balinese

Banjar

Betawi

Gorontalese

Javanese

Madurese

Makassar

Minahasan

Minangkabau

Palembangese

Sundanese

Iranian

Israeli

Italian Abruzzese Apulian Campanian Emilian Ligurian Lombard Lucanian Neapolitan Piedmontese Roman Sardinian Sicilian Tuscan Venetian

Abruzzese

Apulian

Campanian

Emilian

Ligurian

Lombard

Lucanian

Neapolitan

Piedmontese

Sardinian

Sicilian

Tuscan

Venetian

Ivorian

Jamaican

Japanese

Jordanian

Kazakh

Kenyan

Korean North Korean South Korean

North Korean

South Korean

Kosovan

Kuwaiti

Kyrgyz

Latvian

Lebanese

Lesotho

Liberian

Libyan

Liechtensteiner

Lithuanian

Luxembourgish

Malagasy

Malawian

Malaysian Sabahan Sarawakian

Sabahan

Sarawakian

Maldivian

Malian

Maltese

Marshallese

Mauritanian

Mauritian

Mexican Chiapas Mexico City Northern Mexico Nuevo León Oaxaca Veracruz Western Mexico Yucatán

Chiapas

Mexico City

Northern Mexico

Nuevo León

Oaxaca

Veracruz

Western Mexico

Yucatán

Moldovan

Monégasque

Mongolian

Montenegrin

Moroccan

Mozambican

Namibian

Nauruan

Nepalese

New Zealand

Nicaraguan

Nigerian

Nigerien

Niuean

North Macedonia

Norwegian Svalbard

Svalbard

Pakistani

Palestinian

Panamanian

Papua New Guinean

Paraguayan

Peruvian

Polish

Portuguese

Qatari

Romanian

Russian Bashkir Chechen Circassian Cossack Komi Mordovian Sakha Tatar Udmurt Yamal

Bashkir

Chechen

Circassian

Cossack

Mordovian

Udmurt

Rwandan

Saint Lucian

Salvadoran

Sammarinese

São Tomé and Príncipe

Saudi Arabian

Senegalese

Serbian

Seychellois

Sierra Leonean

Singaporean

Slovak

Slovenian

Somali

South African

Spanish Andalusian Asturian Balearic Basque Canarian Cantabrian Catalan Extremaduran Galician Manchegan Valencian

Andalusian

Asturian

Balearic

Basque

Canarian

Cantabrian

Catalan

Extremaduran

Galician

Manchegan

Valencian

Sri Lankan

Sudanese

Swedish

Syrian

Taiwanese

Tanzanian Zanzibari

Zanzibari

Togolese

Trinidadian and Tobagonian

Tunisian

Turkish

Turkmen

Tuvaluan

Ugandan

Ukrainian Cossack

Cossack

Uruguayan

Vanuatuan

Venezuelan

Vietnamese

Western Saharan

Yemeni

Zambian

Zimbabwean

African American

Arab Arab-Indonesian

Arab-Indonesian

Aromanian

Assyrian

Balochi

Berber

Buryat

Chinese American Australian British Cambodian Canadian Filipino Indian Indonesian Malaysian Pakistani Peruvian

American

Australian

British

Cambodian

Canadian

Filipino

Indian

Indonesian

Malaysian

Pakistani

Peruvian

Crimean Tatar

Gagauz

Greek-American

Hazaragi

Indian English Indonesian Malaysian

English

Indonesian

Malaysian

Indigenous American

Indigenous Australian

Italian American

Jewish American Ashkenazi Bukharan Ethiopian Mizrahi Moroccan Sephardic Syrian

American

Ashkenazi

Bukharan

Ethiopian

Mizrahi

Moroccan

Sephardic

Syrian

Kurdish

Livonian

Louisiana Creole

Ryukyuan

Ossetian

Pashtun

Pennsylvania Dutch

Peranakan

Pontic Greek

Romani

Tejano

Transylvanian Saxon

Yup'ik

Buddhist

Christian Goan Catholic Mangalorean Catholic Mennonite

Goan Catholic

Mangalorean Catholic

Mennonite

Islamic Chinese

Chinese

Kashrut Kosher food

Kosher food

Ancient Egyptian

Ancient Greek

Ancient Israelite

Ancient Roman

Antebellum America

Byzantine

Early modern European

Historical Argentine

Historical Chinese

Historical Indian subcontinent

Historical Japanese

Historical North Indian and Pakistani

History of agriculture

History of alcoholic drinks

History of bread

History of seafood

History of vegetarianism

Hittite

Muisca

Mughal

Medieval

Ottoman

Peasant

Pre-contact Hawaiian

Korean royal court

Scottish royal household

Soviet

Thirteen Colonies

Classique

Confectionery

Fast food

Fusion New American Eurasian

New American

Eurasian

Molecular gastronomy

Note by Note

Nouvelle

Vegetarian

List of cuisines

List of historical cuisines

Lists of foods Prepared

Prepared

Cookbook

Cooking

Culinary arts

Food history sociology specialty

history

sociology

specialty

Diet Fat

Meal Meal preparation

Meal preparation

Ritual slaughter

Category

Outline

# Cookbook:Broccoli Stir Fry


Ingredients

Chicken or other meat

Broccoli

Powdered ginger (optional)

Soy sauce

Oil to fry with, possibly including sesame oil

Sesame seeds

Procedure

Cut raw meat into small pieces.

Chop the broccoli head into medium-small pieces, perhaps 1.2-inch diameter. Cut the stalk into disks, ⅛-inch thick.

Place oil in a wok and turn on the heat. High temperatures can produce a better result, but require rapid stirring to prevent burning. Slow beginners should use lower temperatures. Split the cooking into batches as needed to ensure that your wok is not too full; there should be plenty of room to stir and toss the food in your wok. You may prefer to cook each ingredient separately, then mix them at the end.

Place sesame seeds into the wok. Stir fry them until they are golden-brown. Remove them, and put them aside for later.

Stir-fry the meat. Drain juices and add more oil as needed.

Add soy sauce. For a typical wok full of food, add 1 tablespoon. If using low-salt soy sauce, you can add much more without making the food too salty.

Add back the sesame seeds.

If using ginger, add about 1/4 teaspoon, depending on taste. Ginger is somewhat hot.

Add the broccoli, stalks first. When done, the broccoli should be just slightly softened. Broccoli should end up being very bright green, losing the bluish cast but not gaining any hint of a yellow-brown cast.

Notes, tips, and variations

Near the end, you can add well-drained canned straw mushrooms, well-drained canned water chestnuts, and/or crisp white bean sprouts. Seafood is also an option.

# Cookbook:Cream Cheese Wontons


Ingredients

1 cup cream cheese

16 wonton wrappers or 24 egg roll wrappers

Oil (for frying)

Sweet and sour sauce

Procedure

Heat oil in a deep-fat fryer or pour into a deep skillet on high temperature.

While oil is heating, lay out as many wrappers as you plan to use. Have a small bowl of water nearby to wet your fingers.

Put a small dab of cream cheese in one corner of each wrapper, about ½ inch from the edges. Use about 2 tsp for larger egg roll wrappers or 1 tsp for smaller wonton wrappers.

Using your fingers, wet the two edges nearest the cream cheese, then fold the other half down and seal the edges, making a triangle shape. Seal the edges tightly, but try to leave small gaps at the corners so the triangles will not expand so much that they burst.

Drop several wontons into hot oil at a time. Turn over when the edges start to brown and cook for another minute or two.

Set on paper towels to drain, then serve hot with sweet-and-sour sauce.

Notes, tips, and variations

Vegetable oil or peanut oil works best.

# Cookbook:Fried Rice


Fried rice is a simple dish that is easily modified and can be prepared in as little as five minutes. You may choose which ingredients to use and how much to use. Ingredients can be substituted and leftovers work great!

Ingredients

Cooked rice (leftover rice that has been left refrigerated works well)

Soy sauce

Bean sprouts

Bok choy

Kidney beans

Mushroom

Carrot

Sweet corn

Fried tofu

Aromatics (e.g. onion, shallot, scallion, garlic)

Spices

Black pepper

Chilli pepper

Fried rice spice

Meat (optional)

Optionally, cooked meat can be included. Leftovers work here too.

Chicken

Char siu (Chinese barbecue pork)

Marinated beef

Seafood (add curry powder for curry flavor)

Prawns

Shrimps

Procedure

Prepare ingredients

If using tofu, cook it.

If using onions, dice them into whatever size you prefer.

If using bok choy, separate the stalk part from the leaf part. Slice the leaf part crosswise into ¾-inch-thick strips, then tear the strips into 2-inch pieces. These pieces will be treated much like the bean sprouts, though perhaps with slightly more cooking. The stalk part will be treated as celery.

If using bean sprouts, wash them and discard any that are not white and crunchy.

If using meat, slice into desired sized pieces and cook.

Cooking

Add a generous amount of oil to a large frying pan (more than you think you'd need) to avoid sticking. If using a type of sausage or other excessively fatty meat, not as much oil may be needed because of the amount of fat.

Add the rice. Cook over the stove on medium-high heat.

Add the soy sauce, meat(s), eggs, and all vegetables except the onions and bean sprouts.

Add pepper, a pinch or two of sugar, and optionally some added salt.

Add the tofu, bean sprouts, and onion when the rice is almost done (depending on how fried you want them), being careful not to overcook them.

# Cookbook:Onigiri


Onigiri (also called omusubi) is a ball or triangle of hot or cold rice, often with a filling, frequently wrapped in nori making it easier to eat. It is a popular snack food, and is also common as part of a packed lunch. Depending on your location, some convenience store chains have shelves with a large selection of fresh onigiri for sale.

The most common form of onigiri has a filling in the center. This is often something sour or salty, as it helps preserve the rice for longer periods of time. Common fillings include umeboshi (Japanese pickled plum); katsuobushi (dried bonito flakes, often called "okaka" in this case) moistened in soy sauce; cooked, salted salmon ("sake"); cod roe ("tarako"); kombu; and canned tuna ("sea-chicken") with mayonnaise. Less common is onigiri with the filling mixed in with the rice, making it spread throughout the rice.

A related dish is yaki-onigiri, which is a plain onigiri without fillings that has been brushed with soy sauce or barbecue sauce and grilled. This is a common side dish in pubs. A creative variation is a yaki-onigiri in a bowl of dashi garnished with chopped leek and katsuobushi.

Ingredients

100 ml (½ cup) uncooked Japanese-style short grain rice

Filling of choice, such as any of the following: Umeboshi (pickled plums), stones removed Canned tuna, mixed with mayonnaise and seasoned to taste with chopped leeks, soy sauce, or chilies; sour or salty flavours work well. Cooked salmon Cooked egg Katsuobushi, moistened with a small amount of soy sauce

Umeboshi (pickled plums), stones removed

Canned tuna, mixed with mayonnaise and seasoned to taste with chopped leeks, soy sauce, or chilies; sour or salty flavours work well.

Cooked salmon

Cooked egg

Katsuobushi, moistened with a small amount of soy sauce

Nori sheets

Procedure

Cook the rice according to package or rice cooker directions. Let cool just enough to handle with your hands.

While the rice is cooking, prepare your fillings.

Fill a bowl with salt water to rinse your fingers and season the onigiri. You can fill and shape the onigiri using two different methods: Method 1: Wet your hands in the salt water. Take two large spoonfuls of rice into one hand (carefully; the rice is hot), and gently squeeze and flatten it with the other. Make an indentation in the middle, and put some of the filling into the center. Be a little careful to get the filling only in the center and not all over the ball; that can make the rice less sticky, and stickiness is good. "Fold" the rice over the filling so it becomes covered. Squeeze gently, and mold it into a triangular shape by folding both your hands along the palms while keeping the fingers straight. Squeeze like that, rotating the ball a few times, and you will soon have a very neat triangle—this really is much harder to explain than to do. Once the ball is done, put it down on a clean surface to cool down. Rinse your hands in the salt water and repeat. Method 2: Use a bowl and some plastic film. Place about ⅔ of the mixture into the centre of the cling wrap that has been draped into the bowl loosely. Then, add approximately 2 teaspoons of filling (this is working off of about 3–4 portions per cup of rice. Then, place the last ⅓ of the rice to the top. Then, mould the onigiri within the cling wrap. This drastically reduces mess and also is slightly more 'kid friendly'.

Method 1: Wet your hands in the salt water. Take two large spoonfuls of rice into one hand (carefully; the rice is hot), and gently squeeze and flatten it with the other. Make an indentation in the middle, and put some of the filling into the center. Be a little careful to get the filling only in the center and not all over the ball; that can make the rice less sticky, and stickiness is good. "Fold" the rice over the filling so it becomes covered. Squeeze gently, and mold it into a triangular shape by folding both your hands along the palms while keeping the fingers straight. Squeeze like that, rotating the ball a few times, and you will soon have a very neat triangle—this really is much harder to explain than to do. Once the ball is done, put it down on a clean surface to cool down. Rinse your hands in the salt water and repeat.

Method 2: Use a bowl and some plastic film. Place about ⅔ of the mixture into the centre of the cling wrap that has been draped into the bowl loosely. Then, add approximately 2 teaspoons of filling (this is working off of about 3–4 portions per cup of rice. Then, place the last ⅓ of the rice to the top. Then, mould the onigiri within the cling wrap. This drastically reduces mess and also is slightly more 'kid friendly'.

Once the balls are reasonably cool, you need to protect them from drying out. The easiest way is to wrap them in cling wrap, or put them into an airtight plastic food container. When it is time to eat, take one rice ball, wrap it in a piece of nori, and eat away. If you don't mind soggy nori, you can wrap the balls in nori beforehand.

Notes, tips, and variations

You must use Japanese-style short grain rice; if the rice isn't sticky, the onigiri won't hold together.

A rice cooker is recommended since it will be far more 'hands-off' and will also free up more time to prepare the fillings.

There is wide latitude on what you can use as a filling. Try experimenting!

It is a good idea to have a moderately large, clear workspace that is easy to clean afterwards. The rice is sticky, and you will end up getting it everywhere in the area.

Do not use refrigerated, cold rice. Do not refrigerate the onigiri after assembling. Store in lunch cooler or thermos—otherwise the rice gets hard and doesn’t taste good. You can freeze onigiri, then microwave them to defrost.

Fillings for onigiri are only limited to your imagination. One point to remember is to choose fillings that are not overly hard/crunchy. If they are reasonably hard they become quite difficult to eat. Western fillings that can be quite delicious include such things as corned meats, avocado, even olives or semidried tomatoes. A recommendation is to use fillings with a lot of flavour and cut into small pieces.

# Cookbook:Spicy Miso Udon


This is a spicy miso udon soup made with dry udon noodles. This soup may be a little more challenging because the temperature must be controlled. The delicate flavors do not hold up against higher temperatures, so if this soup becomes too hot or reaches a boil it will be ruined.

Ingredients

1–2 cups chicken broth

2 oz katsuobushi (the flavor is mild so you can use more)

1 package dry udon noodles

12 thin slices of sucuk (Turkish sausage)

1 chopped green bell pepper or jalapeno pepper

Sliced onion

1 cup shredded cabbage

Hot paprika powder

1–2 tbsp red pepper paste

1 handful of bean sprouts

1 tbsp miso paste

½ tbsp honey or to taste

Tabasco sauce to taste

1 package enoki mushrooms

1 can good quality sardines

1–2 eggs

Chopped scallions for garnish

Procedure

Bring the chicken broth to a boil. Add the katsuobushi flakes, remove from heat, and let rest for 1 minute.

Strain out and discard the katsuobushi flakes, and set the broth aside.

Cook the udon noodles in salted water until al dente. Drain them, rinse with cold water, and set aside.

In a medium-sized soup pot, stir fry sucuk, green pepper, and onion in olive oil.

Add cabbage, paprika powder, and red pepper paste. Stir to combine.

Add reserved broth, and bring to a simmer over low to medium heat; do not let this get too hot because the flavor of the katsuobushi is very delicate.

Add bean sprouts. Continue to simmer until vegetables reach desired texture.

Add cooked noodles, miso, honey, and tabasco. Do not let the soup reach a boil, as too much heat will destroy the soup's rich flavor.

Add enoki and sardines, and simmer just enough to warm through.

Crack an egg or two into the broth, and serve when the the yolk is just firm

Garnish with scallions.

Notes, tips, and variations

This recipe uses dry wheat noodles, and the cooking procedure may be different than with "springy" style noodles that include tapioca and other ingredients.

This recipe can be made with chicken, pork, etc; if some type of meat is used instead of canned sardines, then the cooking procedure must be adapted to cook the meat.

True dashi is made with kelp broth, not chicken broth.

# Cookbook:Wonton Soup


Wonton filling is essentially stir-fry, but with smaller particles and less cooking. It goes hot into a wonton wrapper (equal to ¼ of an egg roll wrapper), which is then cooked in a hot broth.

Note that these wontons do not contain cabbage or carrots, which are used by commercial wonton producers to cheapen the filling. The filling in these wontons is superior.

Ingredients

Wonton wrappers, or egg roll wrappers cut into quarters

Chicken broth, dashi, or plain miso soup broth

Meat or poultry (suggested: chicken or pork)

Bok choy, or celery and perhaps spinach

Broccoli

Bean sprouts

Powdered ginger

Soy sauce

Bamboo shoots

Oil to fry the filling, possibly including sesame oil

Procedure

Filling

Cut the meat into tiny pieces. This is much easier to do if the meat is cooked, but the result will be better if you cut the meat raw, then cook it.

Cut the bamboo shoots into matchsticks.

Chop the broccoli head into little pieces, perhaps ⅜-inch diameter. Cut the stalk into matchsticks.

If using celery, cut the stalks lengthwise into ¾-inch wide pieces and then crosswise into ⅛-inch slices.

If using bok choy, cut the leaves away from the stalk. Treat the stalks as celery. Cut the leaves crosswise in ½-inch strips, then break the strips into 1.5-inch pieces.

If using spinach, treat it much like the bok choy leaves.

Wash the bean sprouts, discarding any that are not white and crisp.

Place oil in a wok and turn on the heat. High temperatures can produce a better result, but require rapid stirring to prevent burning. Beginners should use lower temperatures. Split the cooking into batches as needed to ensure that your wok is not too full; there should be plenty of room to stir and toss the food. You may prefer to cook each ingredient separately, then mix them at the end.

Add the meat. If it is uncooked, lightly stir-fry it now. Drain juices and add more oil as needed.

You may add a small amount of sesame seed oil and/or sesame seeds for flavor.

Add soy sauce. For a typical wok full of food, add a tablespoon.

Add ginger. About ½ teaspoon of ginger should be right, depending on taste. Ginger is somewhat hot.

Add the broccoli, and the celery and/or bok choy stalks. When done, they should be just slightly softened. Broccoli should end up being very bright green, losing its bluish cast but not gaining any hint of a yellow-brown cast.

Add bok choy leaves and/or spinach. When done, they should be just barely wilted.

Add the bamboo shoots and bean sprouts, and turn off the heat. Do not overcook the bean sprouts.

Construction and boiling

Begin heating water or chicken broth to cook the wontons. You will need this pot to be at a high simmer or low boil to cook the wontons, though such temperatures can damage the taste of dashi and miso soup. Thus, if using dashi or miso soup, you must do the initial cooking in water.

Place a small amount of filling onto a wonton wrapper. Pull the corners of the wrapper up, so that all four corners touch each other. Pinch and/or fold the edges to seal the wonton. Repeat as needed.

Gently lower some wontons into the pot. Do not overfill the pot. Initially, wontons are easy to unseal by accident. While these cook, you can make more wontons.

Cook the wontons for 3 minutes. Remove them with a slotted spoon and place them aside. Keep adding and removing wontons until all are cooked.

To serve, place some wontons in a bowl and pour your choice of liquid over them.

Notes, tips, and variations

You can use tamale filling.

