
# Cookbook:Baozi (Steamed Yeasted Dumplings)
A baozi, also known as bao or bau, is a type of steamed, filled bun or bread-like item in Chinese cuisine. In its bun-like aspect it is very similar to the traditional Chinese mantou, but baozi has filling. It can be filled with meat or vegetarian fillings, and used as an alternative to rice or noodles. It can be eaten at any meal in Chinese culture, and is often eaten for breakfast.
This recipe is just for the dough. Links to commonly made baozi fillings are given below.
Ingredients
Procedure
Stir yeast and 1 tablespoon of sugar into 1 cup of the warm water. Let stand for 15 minutes. Skip this step if your yeast does not need proofing (it will say so on the packet).
Sift the flour and sugar together.
If you pre-mixed the yeast, add to the flour and the rest of the sugar in a mixing bowl.
If you didn't pre-mix the yeast, mix flour, salt if desired, and the sugar, then mix in yeast in a mixing bowl. Add 1 cup of the water in a steady stream, mixing constantly.
Mix together. The dough will begin to form a ragged clump. If the dough does not stick together, add a small amount more water.
Knead dough for 5–10 minutes. The dough will stiffen, and should spring back slowly when indented with a finger. The surface should be smooth and slightly shiny.
Coat the bottom of a large bowl with the sesame oil to give a thin film, and place the dough in the bowl. Roll over so it is coated with the oil.
Allow dough to rise and double in volume in a warm place for 1–1½ hours, or in a cool place like a fridge for 2–3 hours. A slow rise in a cool place will produce a finer texture.
Punch dough down. If you wish at this point, you can allow it to rise and double again, in a warm or cool place, and punch down again. A double rise also results in a finer, more tender texture.
Form into a large pancake shape.
Sprinkle the baking powder evenly across the dough, and knead again, until the same consistency as before it rose. Water from the yeast's respiration may have made the dough softer, so add a bit more flour if needed.
Divide the dough into two long rolls, and cut each into 6 pieces.
Roll each piece of dough into a ball. If you are making plain baozi, go straight to Step 20 now. If making filled baozi, then flatten each ball into a 6-inch (15 cm) disc.
Shape the disc so that it is significantly thicker in the centre than at the edges.
Position one hand as if you were holding a normal drinking glass, and place a disc of dough over the top.
Using two fingers, push the centre of the disc down by about 1 inch (2.5 cm).
Place 1 dessert spoon of filling into the well you just made in the dough.
Still holding your hand in position, use your other hand to fold the edges of the dough together, in a sort of pleated fashion.
Pinch edges together and twist (so that you twist a small portion at the top right off) to close the baozi.
Place each baozi on a square of parchment paper, 3 inches (7.5 cm) to a side.
Allow to rise in warm place 1 hour. The dough should end up springy to the touch.
Cooking
Place buns in a steamer. Try to position so they do not touch one another. It will almost certainly require several batches to steam all the buns, unless you have lots of steamers, or a very big one. You can put them seam up (opening flower effect) or seam down (smooth, round top).
Steam buns over gently boiling water for 10–15 minutes.
After this time, remove the pan and steamer from heat, but don't remove the steamer from the pan, or lift the lid of the steamer. By allowing the steam to subside gradually like this, you prevent the dough from collapsing on contact with the cold air.
After a few minutes, carefully lift the lid and remove the bun gently from the steamer.
When cool enough to handle, remove parchment paper from bottom of buns.
Serve warm.
Notes, tips, and variations
Use bleached flour for a whiter bread.
The ideal sweetness of the baozi is subjective – in China, they generally get sweeter the further south you go. This recipe is fairly sweet, but can be modified either way.
Depending on taste, you can add salt to the dough - ½ tsp. should be sufficient. Remember not to allow concentrated salt to come into contact with the yeast, as it will kill it. Mix the salt with the flour, then add the yeast.
Ensure the place used for rising is draft-free. Drafts prevent the dough from rising as much, resulting in a flatter bread.
Use flour to keep the dough from sticking to your hands, not oil. This keeps the dough from getting too wet. It is cooked in a damp environment, so you don't want wet dough.
Try to keep the dough from drying out and forming a crust when not being worked with. Rise in a covered container (using clingfilm), and cover with a towel when not immediately handling the dough.
Add a couple of tablespoons of vinegar to the steaming water to bleach the buns slightly. The vinegar does not significantly affect the taste of the buns.
Try to use a bamboo steamer. Although a metal one will suffice, it doesn't impart a subtle flavour to the buns like bamboo, and it won't prevent water from forming on flat surfaces and making soggy patches.
Common baozi fillings
Char Siu – Chinese honey roast pork (cha shao, char siu or sometimes "Chinese BBQ")
Red Bean Paste – A sweet paste made of azuki beans and sugar
Jiu Cai (simplified: 韭菜, Pinyin: jiu3 cai4) – Chinese chives
Luobosi (simplified: 萝卜丝, Pinyin: luo2bo si1) – Thinly sliced white radish
Xiaolong Bao (小籠包) – "Little dragon" dumplings, one of the most famous fillings, usually soupy with spicy pork. Highly variable depending on region.
Warnings
Keep leftovers refrigerated.
To reheat, steam for 10–15 minutes or heat in microwave for 30-45 seconds. Reheating by steaming gives better results.
Conversion notes
↑ Weight conversions from USDA National Nutrient Database. Original recipe text and ingredient order preserved. Water density adjustment for 38°C applied.
↑ This excessive amount of yeast will result in a strong yeast flavor. To reduce this flavor, it is recommend to use no more than 0.775% instant dry yeast expressed as a baker's %, alternatively, 2.5% cake yeast (compressed) or 1.05% active dry yeast, although in all cases you can expect fermentation time to increase somewhat. Further reductions will result in less yeast flavor and longer bulk fermentation times.

# Cookbook:BBQ Pork Fried Rice
Ingredients
1 piece (750 g) boneless pork loin, cut into 30 pieces
50 ml barbeque sauce
15 ml light soy sauce
30 ml hoisin sauce
5 tbsp sugar
2½ tbsp salt
Fried rice
6½ tbsp olive oil
5 tbsp sesame oil
7 cloves garlic, minced
5 cm piece of ginger, minced
5 red chillies, minced
6 scallion, cut into 2 cm pieces
4 eggs, mixed
1000 g cooked rice
4 tbsp salted soy sauce
2 tbsp chicken bouillon powder
1½ tbsp oyster sauce
2 tbsp salt
20 g jalapeño
Garnish
Shredded cabbage
Tomato
Pickles
Shredded lettuce
Cucumber
3 eggs, cooked into an omelette and sliced 1 cm thick (as garnish)
Procedure
Combine the barbecue sauce, soy sauce, hoisin sauce, sugar, and salt to make the marinade.
Place the pork into the sauce mixture. Cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate for 25 minutes. Make sure the sauce in the bowl is really absorbed.
Transfer the pork to a baking pan, and bake for 20 minutes at 200°C. When finished, put the pork onto a plate.
Fried rice
Heat the olive oil and sesame oil in a medium wok. Fry the garlic, red chillies, ginger and scallion, then stir briefly for 1 minute. Add the mixed egg and rice.
Add the grilled pork, salted soy sauce, chicken powder, oyster sauce, salt and jalapeño. Stir until mixed.
Serve hot with garnishes.

# Cookbook:Cantonese Crispy Fried Chicken
Ingredients
Pepper salt
1 Tbsp salt
3 Tbsp Sichuan peppercorns (花椒)
1 Tbsp ajinomoto seasoning (味の素)
Chicken
1 whole chicken (small)
2 Tbsp Chinese five-spice powder (五香粉)
3 slices of ginger, crushed
2 scallions
Water to poach chicken in
3 Tbsp vinegar
¼ cup sugar
For Frying
4 cups oil (or enough for deep fryer)
Prawn crackers/shrimp chips (not the ready made ones)
Procedure
Pepper salt
Put salt and peppercorns in a small pan. Heat on medium to low heat until it barely smokes.
Remove from heat.
Grind well in mortar and pestle, or with a rolling pin.
Add ajinomoto and mix well.
Poaching
These steps can be done in advance, and the chicken can be kept in the refrigerator.
Clean and rinse off chicken, discarding the giblets.
Heat enough water to cover the chicken in a pot until boiling.
Put five-spice powder, ginger, and scallions in a cloth and tie it. Add to water, and simmer for 15 minutes.
Add chicken, reduce heat, and gently poach for 20 minutes.
When chicken is done, remove from heat, then pat dry with paper towels and air dry for a little bit.
Put vinegar and sugar in saucepan, and heat until dissolved to make a syrup.
Coat the entire chicken on the inside and outside with the syrup.
Let chicken dry in a breeze until very dry.
Frying
Fill deep fryer with oil, and heat oil to 350°F (175°C).
Deep fry chicken about 10 minutes per side until brown and done.
Remove from oil, and chop with a meat cleaver into 1 x 2-inch pieces.
When chicken is done, fry the shrimp chips in deep fryer.
Sprinkle shrimp chips with a little salt.
Serve chicken adorned with shrimp chips, with pepper salt in a small dish on the side.
Notes, tips, and variations
Poaching is not the same as boiling, since the temperature is lower, about 160–180 °F (71–82 °C) instead of at 212 °F (100 °C), and is even lower than simmering. If boiled, the meat will come out tough and dry. Also the lower the poaching temperature, the longer it will take to poach.
Drying the skin is important, since it helps the syrup to stick. The second drying also is important, since that is what helps to make skin crispy. It can be done the day before, and the chicken kept in the fridge.
The caramelized sugar gives the nice brown color. Vinegar lowers the pH, and helps the caramelization.
Oil temperature is important, since it imparts the brown color to the skin. If the oil temperature is too low, the sugar will not caramelize, and the chicken will not be brown. If it is too high, the sugar will burn. If you don't have a temperature controlled fryer, use a frying (or candy) thermometer.
A deep fryer can hold 2 or 3 liters of oil. Use as much as your deep fryer manual dictates.
If you don't have a deep fryer, it can be fried on the stove in a pot or wok with a fry thermometer, but be very careful. WARNING: A wok can easily tip, spilling oil and giving severe burns. If the oil overflows, one can easily have a very dangerous oil fire. Please read warnings in the article on Cookbook:Deep Fat Frying

# Cookbook:Cantonese Roast Duck
This is a recipe for Cantonese roast duck or goose (燒鴨\燒鵝).
Ingredients
Marinade
2 Tbsp light soy sauce
2 Tbsp dark soy sauce (optional, can use light soy sauce instead)
2 cups (450 ml) of white wine, sherry, or Chinese cooking wine
1 tsp Chinese five spice powder
2 Tbsp Hoisin sauce
2 Tbsp dark soy sauce
3–6 lb (1.3–2.6 kg) whole duck or goose
3 green onions or 1 onion
Procedure
Preparation
Mix all marinade ingredients together.
Mix all glaze ingredients together.
Brush the marinade mixture all over the duck, inside and outside.
Brush some glaze mixture inside the duck cavity.
Sit duck breast-up on a rack in an open container.
Put in the refrigerator to chill overnight.
Cooking
Preheat oven to 450°F (220°C)
Put ½–1 inch (2.5 cm) of water in a roasting pan—this catches the grease that comes out from the duck while roasting and prevents it from smoking.
Place green onions inside the duck cavity.
Place the duck on a roasting rack in the roasting pan. Roast the duck for 15 minutes.
Turn the duck breast-up, and roast for another 15 minutes.
Turn oven heat to 375°F (190°C), and roast the duck until the internal temperature reaches a minimum of 180°F (test between the thigh, the thickest part of the duck/goose, being careful not to touch the bone)
Brush the duck with glaze, turn oven up to 450°F (200°C), and roast again for about 10 minutes.
Carve and serve!

# Cookbook:Char Siu (Chinese BBQ pork)
Cha shao is a kind of spiced Cantonese honey roast pork. It is often also called by the Cantonese char siu or char siew. Sometimes (usually in America) it is called Chinese BBQ pork. It is very popular, and can be eaten by itself (usually cold), or used as an ingredient for other dishes such as cha shao bao (pork buns), or in noodles or rice.
The pork used should be quite fatty in order to keep the meat moist during cooking. Pork shoulder is a good choice. The meat is traditionally hung to cook, as this allows it to cook from all sides in the very hot oven. It can be laid on a rack, but if possible hang from metal S-hooks on a high rack, which are easily and cheaply available from hardware stores.
Sherry can be used instead of Shaoxing wine (also called Shao Hsing wine), but it does not provide quite the same flavour.
Since this dish requires a reasonably large amount of time and preparation, even while cooking (frequent basting is needed), it is easiest to make it in large batches. The recipe here makes 1 kg, which is enough for several different dishes. It can be kept in the fridge for several days or frozen until required.
Ingredients
1 kg (2.25 lbs) pork shoulder
2 tbsp dark soy sauce
2 tbsp light soy sauce
2 tbsp oyster sauce
2 tbsp Shaoxing rice wine
2 tbsp clear honey
4 tbsp hoisin sauce
½ tsp five spice
Procedure
Slice the meat into strips about 1 inch (2.5 cm) wide by 6 inches (15 cm) long. A long thin strip like this will keep its shape better when hanging.
Pierce the pork all over thoroughly with a fork. This makes the pork more tender and allows the marinade to penetrate the meat to give flavour all the way through.
Mix all other ingredients together to make a marinade.
Place pork strips in a tray and cover with marinade. Ensure strips are covered completely in marinade.
Cover tightly with cling film and place in the refrigerator for several hours (8–24 hours is preferable).
Preheat the oven to 230°C or 420°F and place a pan in the bottom to catch drippings. Line this pan with aluminium foil to make cleaning easier.
Hang the meat on hooks in the oven or lay them on a rack. Depending on the method and the size of your oven, it may be easiest to do this in two or three batches, rather than all at once.
Roast for 20 minutes, until pork is cooked all the way through. Baste at least twice to build up a good layer of marinade on the outside of the meat. The pork should turn a golden-red colour as it cooks.
Allow to cool while still hanging, or lay on wire rack to cool. Avoid laying on top of other meat or on a flat surface until cooled.
Cover and refrigerate until needed.
Notes, tips, and variations
Serve cold, or use diced in other dishes.
Add 1 tbsp of toasted sesame oil for a nuttier flavour
Add red food colouring to the marinade to give the traditional deep red hue. This used to be due to the preservative used for the pork. Also, in China, the red colour generally symbolises good fortune. However, due to the strong colour of the marinade described above, a significant quantity of food colouring will be needed.
This dish goes very well with ginger and onion.
Warnings
Use care in handling the raw pork. Wash hands and utensils that come into contact with raw pork. Don't allow raw pork or its juices to come into contact with other foods, unless they are to be cooked afterwards.

# Cookbook:Chinese Rice Porridge (Congee)
Congee is a type of rice porridge eaten across Asia. It may also be called juk, zhou, ganji, or other similar variations.
Ingredients
220 g (7.75 oz) round rice, washed and drained
2.5 L (10 ½ cups) water or chicken broth
Light soy sauce, to personal preference
Sesame oil, to personal preference
White pepper, to personal preference
Garnish
3 spring onions, chopped
4 tbsp freshly-chopped coriander leaves
2 tbsp toasted sesame seeds
30 g (1 oz) sliced ginger
Procedure
Put the rice in a pan and add the bouillon or water. Bring to a boil.
Turn down the heat and leave over low heat for 1 hour and 45 minutes to 2 hours, or until all the rice has turned into a mash.
Add soy sauce and sesame oil and flavor with white pepper.
Finally, add the toppings according to personal preference.
Notes, tips, and variations
Do not overwash the rice, as doing so will wash out the starch, and the congee will not congeal properly. Congee can be made with most types of rice, to help other types of rice to break up, after washing drain and mix in a tea spoon of vegetable oil, then add the rice to the water after having brought the pot to the boil. If you are in a rush, initially start with about a third of the liquid you need, adding the remainder as you cook.
Once the rice had turned into a mush and has released all its starch, a soup can be made by skimming off the top layer of liquid. You will only get one good bowl of this soup per pot of congee, and it is valued as a food for convalescents and babies.
Instead of bouillon, a chicken carcass or pork bones can be added to the cooking water, the congee creates its own stock as it cooks. If using bones, blanch and wash under cold water before use.
Very hot plain congee can be used to cook raw meat and fish (either thinly sliced or diced), which is then eaten with the congee. Among the traditional Chinese favourites are sliced grass carp, sliced lean pork, sliced pork liver, diced beef and diced chicken breast.
The two traditional companions to breakfast congee are plain soya sauce chow mein and youtiao.

# Cookbook:Chow Mein
Chow mein is a generic Chinese term for a dish of stir-fried noodles, of which there are many varieties. Authentic chow mein is generally made of soft noodles, whereas chow mein in Westernized Chinese Cuisine may also be made from thin crispy noodles.
This version of chow mein is made with seitan instead of the more traditional use of chicken, pork or shrimp, making this dish fit for vegans. Also, instead of using oyster sauce in the marinade, shiitake mushrooms are used to achieve a similar depth of flavour.
Ingredients
1 pound mung bean sprouts
15 ounces seitan
½ pound dry wonton noodles
2 medium stalks celery
1 pound bok choy or broccoli
½ pound fresh mushrooms
1 red bell pepper
½ red onion
1 green onion
Vegetable oil for frying, as needed
¼ cup toasted sesame seeds
Marinade
¼ cup finely-chopped shiitake mushrooms
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1 teaspoon soy sauce
Salt to taste
Pepper, to taste
½ teaspoon cornstarch
¼ cup water or low-sodium vegetable broth
1 tablespoon soy sauce
Salt to taste
Pepper, to taste
1 tablespoon cornstarch
4 tablespoons water
Procedure
1–2 hours before cooking, rinse the mung bean sprouts so that they have time to drain thoroughly.
Cut the seitan into thin strips. Add the marinade ingredients, adding the cornstarch last. Marinate the seitan for 20 to 25 minutes.
The following 3 steps can be completed while the seitan is marinating: To prepare the sauce, in a small bowl dissolve the 1 tablespoon cornstarch with the 4 tablespoons water. Whisk the water or vegetable broth with the oyster sauce, soy sauce, salt, pepper and cornstarch and water mixture and set aside. Soften the noodles by placing them in boiling salted water. Plunge into cold water to stop the cooking process and drain thoroughly. Wash all the vegetables as needed. Cut the celery and the bok choy into ½-inch pieces on the diagonal. If substituting broccoli for bok choy, peel the stalks until no more strings come out, and slice thinly on the diagonal. Wipe the mushrooms clean with a damp cloth and slice. Cut the red bell pepper in half, remove the seeds and cut into chunks. Peel and chop the onion. Dice the green onion.
To prepare the sauce, in a small bowl dissolve the 1 tablespoon cornstarch with the 4 tablespoons water. Whisk the water or vegetable broth with the oyster sauce, soy sauce, salt, pepper and cornstarch and water mixture and set aside.
Soften the noodles by placing them in boiling salted water. Plunge into cold water to stop the cooking process and drain thoroughly.
Wash all the vegetables as needed. Cut the celery and the bok choy into ½-inch pieces on the diagonal. If substituting broccoli for bok choy, peel the stalks until no more strings come out, and slice thinly on the diagonal. Wipe the mushrooms clean with a damp cloth and slice. Cut the red bell pepper in half, remove the seeds and cut into chunks. Peel and chop the onion. Dice the green onion.
Heat a wok or frying pan over medium-high to high heat. Add 2 tablespoons oil. When the oil is hot, add the noodles. Fry in batches until golden. Remove the noodles from the pan.
Heat 2 tablespoons oil. Add the onion and the seitan, keeping remaining marinade aside for later use. Let the seitan brown briefly, then stir-fry until the redness is gone and the seitan is nearly cooked through. Remove the cooked seitan and onion from the pan.
Cook the rest of the vegetables separately, except for the green onion, seasoning each with a bit of salt while stir-frying if desired. When cooking the bok choy or broccoli, add ¼ cup of water and cover while cooking. Remove each of the vegetables from the pan when finished stir-frying. Add more oil as needed.
Give the sauce a quick re-stir. Add all the ingredients back into the wok, making a "well" in the middle of the wok for the sauce. Add the sauce and any remaining marinade, stirring quickly to thicken. Mix everything together. Stir in the green onions. Pour the cooked vegetable and sauce mixture on top of the noodles. Garnish the chow mein with the toasted sesame seeds. Serve hot.
Notes, tips, and variations
For crispy chow mein noodles, add more oil than the recipe calls for and cook the noodles longer to dry them out.

# Cookbook:Egg Roll
Egg rolls are a savory Chinese-American fried pastry. They consist of a filling wrapped in a wheat flour skin and deep-fried. Egg rolls may be eaten plain or dipped in sweet-and-sour sauce or teriyaki sauce.
Note that these egg rolls do not contain cabbage and carrots, which are used by commercial egg roll producers to cheapen the filling; as a result, the filling in these egg rolls is superior to the commercial product.
Ingredients
Egg roll wrappers (purchased or made from scratch)
Chicken or pork
Broccoli (optional)
Bok choy (optional)
Celery (optional)
Spinach (optional)
Bean sprouts
Powdered ginger
Soy sauce
Bamboo shoots
Oil to fry the filling, possibly including sesame oil
Oil to fry the finished rolls, possibly including shortening
Egg white
Procedure
Filling
Cut the meat into tiny pieces. This is much easier to do if the meat is cooked, but the result will be better if you cut the meat raw and cook it after cutting.
Cut the bamboo shoots into matchsticks.
If using, chop the broccoli florets into little pieces ~⅜ inch in diameter. Cut the stalk into matchsticks.
If using celery, cut the stalks lengthwise into ¾ inch-wide pieces and then crosswise into ⅛-inch slices.
If using bok choy, cut the leaves away from the stalk. Treat the stalks as celery. Cut the leaves crosswise in ½-inch strips, then break the strips into 1.5-inch pieces.
If using spinach, treat it much like the bok choy leaves.
Wash the bean sprouts, discarding any that are not white and crisp.
Place oil in a wok and turn on the heat. High temperatures can produce a better result, but they require rapid stirring to prevent burning. Beginners should use lower temperatures. Split the cooking into batches as needed to ensure that your wok is not too full; there should be plenty of room to stir and toss the food in your wok. You may prefer to cook each ingredient separately, then mix them at the end.
Add the meat. If it is uncooked, lightly stir-fry it now. Drain juices and add more oil as needed.
You may add a small amount of sesame seed oil and/or sesame seeds for flavor.
Add soy sauce. For a typical wok full of food, add a tablespoon.
Add ginger. About ½ teaspoon of ginger should be right, depending on taste. Ginger is somewhat hot.
Add the broccoli, celery, and/or bok choy stalks. When done, they should be just slightly softened. Broccoli should end up being very bright green, losing the bluish cast but not gaining any hint of a yellow-brown cast.
Add bok choy leaves and/or spinach. When done, they should be just barely wilted.
Add the bamboo shoots and bean sprouts, and turn off the heat. Do not overcook the bean sprouts.
Construction and frying
Begin heating oil to fry the egg rolls. Deep-fat frying works best, though pan frying in ¾-inch of oil will also work. You will not need a basket; egg rolls may stick to a basket and rip. You will need tongs.
Place an egg roll wrapper on a plate. Beginners may use flour to help avoid sticking, but this will quickly foul the oil.
Turn the plate so that the wrapper has one point toward you and one point away from you.
Place some hot filling on the wrapper.
Fold over the corner that faces away from you.
Paint some egg white onto this corner to act as glue.
Fold over the left-facing and right-facing corners.
Paint some egg white onto these parts also, and also onto the remaining corner.
Roll the egg roll toward you, onto the remaining corner of the wrapper.
Examine the wrapper to ensure that it is fully sealed. Tears may be patched up with pieces from a spare wrapper and some egg white glue.
Place the egg roll into the hot oil. You may be able to cook several at once, but do not allow the uncooked egg rolls to sit for long. Egg rolls that sit uncooked will become sticky and easy to tear.
Turn the egg rolls over a few times as they cook, and dunk them under the oil. Be sure not to break them open as you do this.
Remove the egg rolls when they are golden brown. Place them onto a fresh plate, so that they do not become contaminated with raw egg whites. Be sure to not handle the cooked egg rolls with hands that may be contaminated with raw egg whites.
Serve quickly; they are best eaten hot.
Egg roll assembly
The prepared filling
The first fold
The third fold
Frying the egg roll
Finished egg roll
Notes, tips, and variations
Like other fried foods, egg rolls do not keep very long after cooking, but the filling itself will keep well in the fridge.
Leftover filling and wrappers may be used to make wonton soup. Leftover wrappers may be deep-fried alone, then immediately covered in sugar and cinnamon.
Warnings
When a pot of hot oil catches fire, the flames will reach up for 2 or 3 feet. If you must work under flammable cabinets or shelves, be sure to have a fire extinguisher handy (class K in the United States, class F in Europe.) An oil with a high smoke point is less likely to cause problems, including indoor air pollution and fire. Do not use water to extinguish an oil fire.

# Cookbook:Fried Corn
A pleasantly-surprising recipe encountered in China. Also, a good first attempt for beginning deep-fryers. Makes a good substitute to chips or fries.
Ingredients
Canned or frozen corn
Egg wash (optional)
Pepper
MSG (optional)
Spices (as desired)
Procedure
If using frozen corn, thaw. If using canned corn, microwave in a glass bowl or gently heat on the stove until warm.
Coat corn with a light layer of egg wash.
Mix salt, pepper, MSG, and other spices into the flour.
Move corn from the egg wash, and toss with the flour mixture until well-coated.
Heat enough oil for deep-frying to moderate–high heat.
Deep-fry floured corn until golden brown on the outside (less than 2 minutes).
Serve as a complement to another dish.
Notes, tips, and variations
Substitute moderately-chopped vegetables such as carrots and green beans for additional flavors.
Warnings
When a pot of hot oil catches fire, the flames will reach up to 2 or 3 feet. If you must work under flammable cabinets or shelves, be sure to have a fire extinguisher handy. An oil with a high smoke point is less likely to cause problems, including indoor air pollution and fire. See deep-frying for more warnings.

# Cookbook:General Tso's Chicken
General Tso's chicken (Mandarin: Zuo Zongtang ji in) is a popular battered-chicken recipe in Chinese-American restaurants, allegedly hailing from Hunan province in China. However, the stories of the recipes heritage involving Zuo Zongtang (General Tso) are probably apocryphal, and it is more likely to be a dish based on similar Hunanese recipes, invented to please the American diner. Nonetheless, it is tasty and easy to prepare.
While the dish is traditionally deep-fried, it tastes just as good when shallow-fried—a safer and easier option.
Ingredients
Chicken/Batter
750 g (1.65 lb) raw chicken dark meat, boneless and skinless.
1 tbsp light soy sauce
Seasoning to taste
2–3 tbsp cornstarch, or as needed
700 ml (3 cups) oil to deep fry, or enough oil to shallow-fry
2 tbsp dark soy sauce
1 tbsp rice vinegar
1 tbsp red Shaoxing rice wine
1 tbsp sugar
3 tbsp chicken stock or water
1 tbsp finely-chopped ginger
1 tbsp crushed and minced garlic
1 tbsp cornstarch (to thicken sauce; optional)
Vegetables
4 spring onions, chopped
1 tbsp chopped dried chile peppers
Procedure
Cut the chicken into 2 cm (¾ inch) cubes.
Beat the egg, light soy sauce, and seasoning in a bowl.
Add the chicken pieces to the egg mixture, and stir in the cornstarch to thicken the mixture.
Mix the sauce ingredients in another bowl and set aside until needed. Stir out any lumps.
Heat the oil in a wok (if deep frying, aim for 180°C or 350°F).
If deep frying, fry the pieces of battered chicken a few at a time until crispy (around 3 minutes). If shallow-frying, fry until the chicken is cooked and the batter is golden. Remove excess oil from the chicken pieces after frying.
After frying the chicken, empty and wipe clean the wok. Add 2 tbsp oil back to the wok, and return to the heat.
Fry the spring onions and chili peppers together for about 30 seconds.
Add the chicken pieces back to the wok, and stir fry with the vegetables until browned.
Stir sauce and add to wok. After the sauce comes to a boil, cook for about 1 minute or until sauce thickens. The exact time will depend partly on how much cornstarch you added.
Remove from heat and serve immediately.
Notes, tips, and variations
Dark meat is preferred, but you can also use white meat, or both!
Serve with steamed or fried rice.
You can substitute a dry sherry for the Shaoxing wine.
A small onion can be used instead of the spring onions.
Reduce or increase the chili peppers depending on your liking for spicy-hot foods.
The quantity of sauce can be increased according to preference.
Warnings
Use care in handling raw chicken. Wash hands and utensils that come into contact with raw chicken. Don't allow raw chicken or its juices to come into contact with other foods, unless they are to be cooked afterwards.
If deep-frying in a wok, be extremely careful with the hot oil. It can cause very severe burns or start a fire. Always keep a fire extinguisher handy, and make sure it is properly charged yearly.

# Cookbook:Hongshao Rou (Red Braised Pork Belly)
Hongshao rou (lit. red-cooked meat) is a traditional Chinese pork dish. It is a very popular homemade dish, but it is rarely found in Western restaurants. Often a family's exact recipe is a secret and passed down the generations. It consists of pork belly in a thick, sweet, dark sauce, simmered for a long time to soften the normally tough meat. Frequently other meats such as tripe or beef tendon are used in addition to the pork.
Ingredients
700 g pork belly, cubed
3 tbsp vegetable oil
2 tbsp white sugar
350 ml pork or chicken stock
1 tbsp minced ginger
2 tbsp dark soy sauce
50 ml Shaoxing rice wine
3 star anise pods
4 small spring onions, sliced
Procedure
In a medium saucepan, over high heat, heat the oil and sugar together until the sugar melts and turns brown.
Add the cubed pork to the sugar and oil and brown all over.
Reduce the heat, add the stock, ginger, star anise, soy sauce, and Shaoxing wine to the pan.
Cover tightly and simmer for 40 minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent it burning at the bottom.
Remove the lid and add the spring onions.
Boil the sauce until only a thick, dark gravy is left.
The dish may be served now, but if possible, refrigerate for a day to allow the flavours to develop.
Serve with rice, garnish with sliced spring onion.
Notes, tips, and variations
Add 500 g sliced tripe. If the tripe was frozen, boil vigorously for about 40 mins until tender and not chewy. If fresh tripe is used (highly recommended) this is not required. Add to the pan about halfway through the simmering.
Add 250 g beef tendon, cut into small cubes. Boil vigorously for about 40 mins until translucent and not too chewy. Add this to the pan about halfway through the simmering.

# Cookbook:Hot and Sour Soup
Hot and sour soup is a popular soup served at Chinese restaurants in the United States. This version tastes exactly like that served at various Chinese restaurants in California.
Ingredients
6 cups chicken stock or broth (or 4 cups water and 4 chicken bouillon cubes)
4 ½ tablespoons soy sauce
⅓ cup cooked shredded chicken or pork
¾ cup mushrooms, diced
¾ tablespoon garlic chili sauce
⅓ teaspoon freshly-ground black pepper
⅓ cup white vinegar
½ cup canned bamboo shoots, julienned
4 ½ oz block of tofu, cut into ¼-inch dice
3 tablespoons cornstarch and 2 tablespoons cold water
1 egg, beaten
3 green onion stalks, diced (including tops)
¾ teaspoon toasted sesame oil
Procedure
Bring chicken broth to a simmer in a 2-quart saucepan.
Add soy sauce, shredded meat, mushrooms and garlic chili sauce. Simmer for 5 minutes.
Add black pepper, white vinegar, bamboo shoots, tofu. Simmer for 5 minutes.
Combine 3 tablespoons of cornstarch with 2 tablespoons of cold water in a cup. Stir until mixture is smooth. Add cornstarch mixture to soup and stir well.
Simmer for 5 minutes until soup is thickened.
Beat egg in a cup until yolk and white are combined. Pour beaten egg slowly, in a fine stream into soup. Stir soup several times, then wait 30 seconds.
Add green onions and sesame oil to soup. Stir well and remove from heat.
Serve hot.
Notes, tips, and variations
Adjust vinegar, ground black pepper, garlic chili sauce and soy sauce to taste. American vinegar is much more acidic than its Chinese counterpart, so start with very little and add slowly.
Add or remove mushrooms, bamboo shoots, or tofu as needed. These three ingredients don't add much to the taste, mostly they add to the texture of the soup.

# Cookbook:Kung Pao Chicken
Kung pao chicken (gong bao in Mandarin) is a spicy Sichuan recipe made with diced chicken, chili peppers and peanuts, named after a court official. It is a popular dish served at Chinese restaurants throughout the United States and the UK.
Ingredients
Chicken/Marinade
1 lb boneless, skinless chicken meat, cut into 1-inch cubes
2 tbsp oyster sauce
2 tbsp sherry or rice wine
1 tsp cornstarch
Spices
4 tbsp cooking oil
½ cup shelled peanuts
5–10 small dried red chile peppers
¼ tsp crushed red pepper flakes
1 tsp crushed garlic
Vegetables
1 green bell pepper, cut into ½-inch dice
1 red bell pepper, cut into ½-inch dice
1 can (5 oz) sliced bamboo shoots (optional), drained
3 stalks celery, chopped
4 green onions, cut into ½-inch pieces, including green tops
2 tbsp soy sauce
2 tbsp rice vinegar
4 tbsp chicken broth
1 tsp garlic powder
1 tsp sugar
1 tsp cornstarch
1 tsp sesame oil
2 tsp Hoisin sauce
Procedure
Measure and prepare all ingredients before cooking.
Mix all chicken/marinade ingredients in a bowl, stir well, and allow to marinate for ½ hour.
Mix sauce ingredients in another bowl and set aside until needed. Stir out any lumps.
Heat wok or large frying pan until water drops bead up and dance on the hot surface.
Add cooking oil to wok. Wait a few seconds for oil to heat up.
Add remaining spice ingredients to wok and stir fry for 30 seconds.
Add chicken mixture to wok and stir fry for about 4 minutes (until chicken is cooked through).
Add vegetables to wok and stir fry for about 2–3 minutes.
Stir sauce and add to wok. After the sauce comes to a boil, cook for about 1 minute (until sauce thickens).
Stir to coat other ingredients with thickened sauce.
Pour onto large platter and serve immediately.
Notes, tips, and variations
Serve with steamed or fried rice.
Warnings
Don't eat the dried, small red chili peppers unless you like spicy-hot foods. They are mainly used to season the pot and are not usually eaten.
Use care in handling the raw chicken. Wash hands and utensils that come into contact with raw chicken. Don't allow raw chicken or its juices to come into contact with other foods, unless they are to be cooked afterwards.

# Cookbook:Mapo Tofu
Mápó dòufu (麻婆豆腐), also romanized as mapo tofu, is a classic spicy tofu and meat dish from the Szechuan province of China. It is a very flavourful, easy-to-prepare, and spicy dish.
Ingredients
1 onion, sliced
1 small piece of ginger, minced (about 2 tsp)
1–2 tsp crushed dried chile pepper
200 g (7 oz) minced beef, or pork
4 cloves of garlic, minced
500 g (1 lb) silken tofu, cubed
2 tbsp chili bean paste (la doubanjiang)
1 tbsp Szechuan pepper, roasted and ground
1 tbsp soy sauce
1 tbsp rice wine
3–4 green onions, cut into 2 cm (1 inch) pieces
2–3 mushrooms (tree ears preferred; optional)
Procedure
If using dried mushrooms, soak them in hot water for 10 minutes while preparing the rest of the ingredients, then slice before adding later.
Sauté onion with ginger and crushed chili.
Add minced meat and garlic, and fry until brown.
Mix in other ingredients (including sliced mushrooms), lower heat, and simmer for 5–10 minutes.
Serve over steamed jasmine rice.
Notes, tips and variations
Some extra chili pepper can be substituted for Szechuan pepper, but the taste and feeling will be different. Szechuan pepper has a numbing sensation, not heat.
A little ground coriander and cumin is very nice in this dish, especially if you cannot find Szechuan pepper easily.
A red bell pepper, a tomato, and fresh coriander leaves are all welcome additions, though not traditional.
The meal is just as good with whole beans instead of tofu.
A vegan/vegetarian version of this meal can be made by substituting the meat with textured vegetable protein (TVP) or ground tofu (e.g. Shiok Food's Vegetarian Ma Po Tofu)
External links
↑ Shiok Food's Vegetarian Ma Po Tofu, original URL, archived original URL

# Cookbook:Meat and Shrimp Potstickers
Potstickers (锅贴 鍋貼 guōtiē; literally "pot stick") are a Northern Chinese-style dumpling popular as a street food, appetizer, or side order in Japanese and Chinese cuisine. This dish is often served on a dim sum menu, but may be offered independently. The filling for this dish usually contains pork (or chicken), cabbage, scallions, ginger, and sesame seed oil. The mixed filling is sealed into a dumpling wrapper, steamed in a wok, and then fried to crispness on one side in a shallow frying pan. The effect of the one crisp side of the dumpling is where it gets its English name of potsticker as it appears to have been stuck to the pot in which it was cooked. The potsticker is similar to the Japanese gyoza dumpling.
Also see recipes for Cookbook:Gyoza and Cookbook:Pot Stickers (which has a nice pictorial).
Ingredients
Filling
½ pound (about 250 g) ground chicken or pork
½ pound ground raw prawn or shrimp
12 raw prawns/shrimp, chopped
½ cup water chestnuts (fresh if possible) peeled and sliced
1 tablespoon light soy sauce
1 tablespoon sesame oil
1 tablespoon salt
1 pinch white pepper (optional)
3 tablespoons green/spring onion, minced
3 tablespoons fresh ginger, minced
3 tablespoons cilantro, chopped
Assembly
1 package store-bought gyoza/wonton wrappers
Cornstarch
Vegetable oil
Procedure
Mix together the filling ingredients.
Place a small bowl of water on the work area. If desired, mix in a little cornstarch to make a glue.
Lay out one of the gyoza wrappers in front of you.
Dip your finger in the water and moisten the edges of the wrapper.
Place a heaped teaspoon of filling in the middle of the wrapper.
Fold the gyoza wrapper over the filling and pinch the edges to seal it shut.
Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a large skillet or wok.
When oil is ready, carefully add the dumplings and cook on high heat until golden brown (about 1 minute).
Without turning the dumplings over, add 1 cup of water and cover.
Steam for about 1 minute to cook the raw filling and then turn off the heat (this is to keep the bottom from burning).
Let the dumplings cook for a few more minutes with the heat turned off.
Serve the potstickers with dipping sauce or soy sauce.

# Cookbook:Pig's Trotters and Ginger Vinegar Stew
Pig's trotters and ginger vinegar stew (豬腳薑) is a Cantonese Chinese dish traditionally prepared for new mothers, but which is now also a popular everyday dish. The main ingredients of Pig's Trotters and Ginger Vinegar Stew are: pig trotters, ginger, Chinese sweet black vinegar, eggs, salt, and oil. You want to be able to fill your pot, so actual quantities will depend on your pot.
Ingredients
4 pigs trotters
12 large eggs
500 g ginger root
Enough sweet black vinegar to cover your other ingredients
Procedure
Hard boil the eggs, refresh and set aside to cool
Wash, peel and thickly slice the ginger, bruise with the flat of a knife.
Fry the ginger at high heat with oil and salt for about 5 minutes. Set aside.
Remove the hair from trotters (singe with an open flame and then scrape away with a knife, if you have a chef's blowtorch use that; otherwise carefully use a gas hob).
Bring a pan of hot water to the boil and blanche the trotters. Remove the trotters from the water once the skin has tightened and the exterior of the trotters has changed colour, refresh wth cold water until cooled, and put aside to drain.
Once mostly dry (help them along with a clean cloth) section the trotters first across the joints and then lengthwise.
Rub the trotters well with salt and heat up a frying pan or wok. Brown the trotters in their own fat.
Place the ginger and trotters into the earthernware pot, then add the sweet vinegar. Bring to a boil and lower the heat and simmer for about 20 minutes.
Peel the eggs and add them into the pot. Continue simmering for 10 more minutes.
Remove from heat and set aside for a day. Occasionally warm gently over low heat, then bring to a simmer and allow to cool again. The tradition is to heat and allow to cool three times over the course of a day. The stew will set into a jelly.
Notes, tips and variations
The tradition is to cook this dish in a tall earthenware pot with a glazed interior. The acidic vinegar and cooking method will leach metals from iron pots into the stew, more so than with water based stews.
The stew will set into a jelly; reheat to serve. The stew is eaten over two to three days, as the trotters, ginger and eggs are consumed, more boiled eggs can be added to the heated stew, initially the liqueur is retained and consumed sparingly only when it has significantly reduced and thickened after a couple of days of heating, cooling and topping up is it at its best. The skin, tendons and cartilage of the trotters is eaten.
Avoid using metal utensils when eating and serving.

# Cookbook:Pork Gyoza
Gyoza are the Japanese variation of Chinese potsticker dumplings (guotie). They consist of a thin flour dumpling skin that is filled, pleated, and pan-fried. The contrast between filling and crispy exterior is a very pleasing sensation and, like many dishes, it can be melded to incorporate almost any flavour.
Ingredients
Dumplings
½ lb ground pork
1–3 tsp prepared mustard
1–2 tbsp soy sauce
1–2 tbsp each of minced green onion, bell pepper, and/or chili
At least 50 round wonton wrappers or other round dumpling skins (see note below)
Dipping Sauces
Soy sauce and honey (mix to taste)
Black bean paste
Peanut sauce
Plum sauce
Black vinegar and shredded ginger
Soy sauce with some rice wine vinegar
Procedure
Assembly
Combine the pork, mustard, soy sauce, and vegetables with clean hands. Knead the pork against the glass bowl to work the proteins for a mushier consistency.
Get out your dumpling skins, and cover them with a damp tea-towel or paper towel to prevent them from drying out.
Place about ½–1 tsp filling in the center of each dumpling wrapper.
Dampen the edge of half the dumpling wrapper. Fold the wrapper in half, enclosing the filling, so the wet and dry edges meet. Crimp the edges to ensure a tight seal.
Either proceed directly to the cooking stage, or freeze the dumplings and store frozen for up to six months.
Cooking
Heat a heavy frying pan (not non-stick) over medium to medium-high heat.
Brush the pan lightly with vegetable oil. Add 8–10 dumplings, making sure not to crowd the pan.
Let these dumplings cook without touching them for at least 2 minutes. They will sizzle and pop, but do not touch them until they have stuck to the pan (usually about 2 minutes).
When they have browned on the bottom (watch the edges near where the dumpling touches the pan) check for sticking.
When the dumplings have stuck to the pan, pour about ⅓ cup of stock, broth, or water into the pan to a depth of about ⅛–¼ inch. Cover with a tight lid.
Cook until all the liquid has been converted to steam (about 2 minutes). This is one of the more difficult parts of this process. You may have to adjust the amount of liquid used based on the liquid and your pan)
Carefully remove the dumplings from the pan. Serve while hot with dipping sauces.
Notes, tips, and variations
The primary difference between packaged gyôza skins and packaged wonton skins is shape—round for gyôza skins, square for wonton skins. Whichever one you use is a matter of preference. If both are available, try both and decide which you prefer. You can also make these skins yourself, but it is a time-consuming process and the dough has to be rolled quite thin.
You can vary the filling ingredients to suit your taste. Pork plays well with others. Keep in mind that a filling that is too wet may expand too much during cooking and cause the dumpling to split open, while a filling that is too dry will become drier during cooking. Any filling should easily maintain its shape if moulded into smaller balls.

# Cookbook:Pot Stickers
Pot Stickers or Jiaozi are traditional Chinese dumplings that are both fried and steamed. You can use whatever filling you like. Pork is traditional, but there are many versions. Any meat should be thoroughly cooked, and all ingredients should be sliced very small. For the example shown, garlic and ginger was cooked in oil, and then asparagus and tofu were cooked with the oil. These instructions show how to assemble the pot stickers once the filling is ready.
Ingredients
Gyoza or wonton wrappers
Desired filling
Procedure
Step 1: Begin with your filling.
Step 2: Brush a gyoza wrapper with a little water around the edges.
Step 3: Put 1 tablespoon of filling into the center of the wrapper.
Step 4: Bring the sides of the wrapper together, with the filling contained inside.
Step 5: Pinch one side of the wrapper into small folds, working down both sides, until a familiar pot sticker shape results.
Step 6: When finished with the folds, the pot sticker should be fully sealed.
Step 7: Uncooked potstickers can be stored in the refrigerator for a day, or in the freezer for weeks or months, before cooking.
Step 8: Pan-fry the pot stickers in a little oil
Step 9: Fry the pot stickers a few minutes until the bottoms look slightly browned, like this.
Step 10: Pour in ½ cup water.
Step 11: Steam the pot stickers, covered, until the water cooks away (5–10 minutes)
Step 12: Your pot stickers are now ready to eat. Enjoy!

# Cookbook:Red Bean Paste
Red bean paste (in simplified Chinese: 红豆沙, in traditional Chinese: 紅豆沙, Pinyin: hóngdòushā, meaning "red bean sand", due to its texture) is a sweet paste used for many things in Chinese, Japanese and Korean cuisine. It is made from mashed adzuki beans (known as red beans in Chinese), mixed with sugar.
A range of texture from coarse and gritty to fine and smooth is possible. For a coarse paste, boil the beans for less time and mash by hand. For a fine paste, boil for longer and use a blender to mash the beans.
Ingredients
200 ml dried adzuki beans
Water as needed for soaking and boiling
150 ml sugar
75 ml vegetable or peanut oil for frying
Procedure
Wash the beans, checking for and removing any that are damaged or diseased. Soak the beans in cold water for at least 4 hours or, preferably, overnight. This softens the beans slightly and reduces the cooking time greatly.
Drain the beans and rinse once soaked.
Place into a small saucepan and cover with water. Bring to the boil.
Simmer the beans for 1½–2 hours, until soft and disintegrating slightly. Longer boiling will result in a smoother paste. Remember to top up the water occasionally so the beans don't boil dry and burn.
Drain away the water.
Depending on the desired texture, mash the beans by hand (coarse) or in a blender (fine) until they are as you want. Note that the paste is very thick, so if using a blender, it is easier to do it a bit at a time.
Stir in the sugar. You should now have a thick but damp paste.
Preheat the oil in a frying pan or wok, and fry the bean paste, using a spatula or spoon to stir, until the water has been driven off. The bean paste will now be quite dry, with a slightly grainy texture.
Cool, and store in an airtight container until needed. This paste will keep for at least a week in the fridge.
Red bean paste is used in many recipes:
As a filling for baozi
As a filling for daifuku
As a filling for mooncakes
As an ingredient in red bean soup
As a filling for tangyuan, boiled glutinous rice balls
For zongzi, made of steamed or boiled rice and red bean paste
Spread on toast, much like peanut butter or jam
Notes, tips, and variations
75 ml sounds like a lot of oil, but it is required to drive out the water properly.

# Cookbook:Salted Mustard Greens and Shredded Meat Noodle Soup
Salted mustard greens and shredded meat noodle soup (雪菜肉絲麵) is a Chinese dish composed of salted mustard greens (雪裡紅), shredded pork (肉絲), soup stock, and noodles. Many Chinese restaurants in the US serve this dish. All quantities are approximate.
Ingredients
Mustard greens
Pork tenderloin
Corn starch
Soy sauce
Soup stock
Cooked noodles
Procedure
Wash and dry the mustard greens.
Add salt to the greens.
Seal in a plastic bag and store in the refrigerator for several days.
Cut the pork tenderloin meat into tiny strips. Marinate the meat with corn starch, soy sauce, and sugar.
Retrieve the semi-pickled mustard greens and dice them.
Using a wok, stir-fry the meat until it is slightly brown. Remove the meat from the wok.
Stir-fry the salted mustard greens until slightly brown.
Place the meat back into the wok and add soup stock and water. Simmer for a couple of minutes.
Serve the soup with noodles.
See also
Cookbook:Steamed Pork With Mustard Greens

# Cookbook:Shark Fin Soup
Shark fin soup, or shark fin stew, is a fish soup believed to have originated from China. On the Chinese seas during the 1800s, pirates under the control of Ch'ing Yih Szaou used to make shark fin soup that took at least 4 hours to prepare.
Recipes for shark fin soup vary, but shark fin is an essential ingredient. In recent years, it has been criticized for its negative impact on shark populations.
Ingredients
400 g shark fins
100 g dried, ground shrimp
10 large dried Dongu mushrooms
50 g dried bamboo shoots
1 sliced ginger root
2 tbsp bacon fat
1 tsp salt
2 tbsp soy sauce
4 tbsp Chinese white wine
¾ liter chicken broth
Fish stock from red-boiled fins
1 tsp sesame oil
1 tbsp cornstarch
Procedure
Clean the fins and place in lukewarm water.
Soak ground shrimp and dried mushrooms for 30 minutes in ¼ litre warm water. The water can then be discarded. The dried bamboo should also be soaked until soft, then cut into thin strips.
Thoroughly clean and scale the shark fins, then place in a litre of water. Simmer for 1 hour. Afterwards, set the water aside.
Place fins in a fresh litre of water and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer, covered, for 1½ hours. Afterwards, strain fins.
In a separate pot, add chicken broth and bring to a boil. Add ginger and shrimp and simmer for 30 minutes.
Remove from heat and strain the broth, discarding the shrimp and ginger.
In a separate pot, heat the bacon fat, adding the bamboo shoots and mushrooms together with salt.
Sauté for 1 minute, then add soy sauce, wine, broth, fish stock, and fins. Boil over low heat, stirring frequently, for 20 minutes.
Remove from heat and slowly stir in the corn starch, in small increments. Sprinkle sesame oil on the soup.
Serve in a large bowl. The shark fins should remain on the surface.
References
↑ Klausmann, Ulrike; Meinzerin, Marion; Kuhn, Gabriel (1997). Women Pirates and the Politics of the Jolly Roger (1st ed.). C.P. 1258 Succ. Place du Parc Montreal, Quebec, Canada H2W2R3: Black Rose Books Ltd. p. 192. ISBN 1-55164-058-9.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location (link)

# Cookbook:Soy Mustard Lamb Chops
In China, lamb is quickly roasted over a hot fire and taken to work for lunch. The flavor is great for anytime, though.
Ingredients
Marinade
¼ cup soy sauce
2 tbsp extra light olive oil
2 tsp sesame oil
2 tsp fresh rosemary leaves
1 tbsp brown mustard
1 tbsp honey
2 lamb tenderloin chops per person
Procedure
Combine the marinade ingredients.
Slash the fat side of the lamb, and add the lamb chops to the marinade. Marinate, turning frequently, for about 30 minutes. Make sure to get the marinade on the sides as well as each flat area.
Fire up the grill and make a very hot fire.
Remove chops from marinade, keeping the marinade on the side, and sear the chops on one side for 3 minutes.
Remove each chop, dip in the marinade on both sides, and place back on the grill with the uncooked side down.
Cook another 3 minutes, allowing the meat to sear.
Remove the chops, dip in the marinade, and return to fire for 1 minute on lower heat with the grill hood closed.
Repeat the last step on the other side, and serve immediately.

# Cookbook:Soy Sauce Chicken
Soy sauce chicken (醬油雞) is a northern Chinese dish.
Ingredients
Chicken parts (legs or wings)
Green onions
Cooking oil
2–3 tbsp (30–45 ml) soy sauce
2–3 tbsp (30–45 ml) cooking wine
Chopped ginger
Up to 1 tbsp sugar
Procedure
Fry the chicken parts in a pan with green onions and oil until the outside of the chicken parts are brown.
Add soy sauce, cooking wine, chopped ginger, and sugar. Add enough water to cover the chicken.
Simmer, uncovered, over low heat until most of the liquid has evaporated.

# Cookbook:Steamed Buns with BBQ Pork
This is a yeast dough bun that is stuffed with a meat filling and steamed until cooked.
Ingredients
Bun filling
8 ounces (225 g) shredded cooked pork or chicken
½ cup barbecue sauce
1 tbsp soy sauce
1 tbsp cooking oil
1 tbsp granulated white sugar
1 tbsp Teriyaki sauce
1 tsp garlic chili sauce
¼ tsp five spice powder
¼ tsp toasted sesame oil
Steamed buns
1½ cups warm water (95°F / 35°C)
3 tsp (or 1 packet) active dry yeast
3 tbsp granulated white sugar
4 cups white bread flour
2 tbsp cooking oil
1 tsp baking powder
½ tsp salt
Procedure
Bun filling
Place all ingredients in food processor.
Process until ingredients are blended and chopped fine.
Steamed buns
Stir yeast and 1 tablespoon of sugar into 1½ cups of warm water (95°F / 35°C.). Let stand for 15 minutes.
Mix yeast water, 2 more tablespoons of sugar, flour, cooking oil, baking powder, and salt in mixing bowl.
Stir until dough forms. Knead dough for 10 minutes.
Allow dough to rise in a warm place for 1½ hours.
Punch dough down and divide into 12 pieces.
Roll each piece of dough into a ball, then flatten with rolling pin into a 6-inch (15 cm) circle.
Place 1 tablespoon of meat filling in center of each flattened piece of dough.
Lift the edges of the flattened dough up around the filling and bring edges together. Pinch edges closed to form filled bun.
Place buns on parchment paper. Allow to rise in a warm place 1 hour, until doubled in size.
Steam buns in a steamer over boiling water for 20 minutes.
Remove from steamer. When cool enough to handle, remove parchment paper from bottom.
Serve warm.
Notes, tips, and variations
Keep leftovers refrigerated. Reheat in microwave for 30–45 seconds.

# Cookbook:Steamed Pork With Mustard Greens
Steamed pork with mustard greens (梅菜扣肉, pinyin: Méicàikòuròu) or mei cai kou rou is a Chinese dish from the Hakka people. It is very popular and tasty but contains a lot of saturated fat.
Ingredients
About 10.5 ounces mustard greens
1 tsp cornstarch combined with 1 tsp cold water
½ tsp sugar
2 tsp light soy sauce
1 tsp rice wine or water
¾ pound pork tenderloin
2 tbsp vegetable oil
2 tbsp black bean and garlic sauce
About 2 tbsp water
Freshly ground black pepper
Procedure
Wash greens and discard tough stems.
Bring a large pot of water to a boil, add greens, and cook for 2 minutes.
Drain greens and rinse with cold water to stop the cooking. Drain again, then cut greens into long diagonal strips.
In a medium bowl, combine cornstarch and water. Stir in sugar, soy sauce and rice wine. Cut pork into thin slices and add to the mixture. Marinate about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Heat oil in a preheated wok or large heavy skillet over medium heat. Add black bean sauce and stir-fry for 1 minute.
Add pork and stir-fry for 2 minutes.
Add mustard greens and water. Mix well and simmer gently about 4–5 minutes, until pork is cooked through and greens are tender.
Season with pepper and serve.
References
Hsiung, Deh-Ta. The Chinese Kitchen: A Book of Essential Ingredients with Over 200 Easy and Authentic Recipes. New York: St. Martin's Griffin, 2002.

# Cookbook:Steamed Tuna Bao Buns
Steamed tuna bao buns are a type of steamed dumpling from American-Asian cuisine. They are made with a simple yeast leavened dough and steamed until soft and fluffy. They can be eaten plain or stuffed with a variety of fillings. This recipe uses a tuna and pineapple filling.
Ingredients
All-purpose flour
Rice flour
Tapioca starch (or potato starch)
½ packet dry active yeast
1 tbsp honey
Milk, warm (~100°F)
Vegetable oil
White granulated sugar
Lukewarm water (~100°F)
Filling
Canned tuna
Canned pineapple in juice, cut into small pieces
1 tbsp canned pineapple juice
Barbecue sauce (your choice)
Seasoning powder (hot paprika, salt, pepper, garlic powder, ground ginger, ground star anise)
1 pinch Vegeta seasoning (optional, has MSG)
1 tsp spicy mustard
Shelled whole peanuts
Procedure
Add active dry yeast and honey to around 8 oz warm water and milk. If using instant yeast there is no need to bloom the yeast.
Sift in a mix of all purpose flour, rice flour, tapioca starch. It should be mostly AP flour, but the exact mixture is not precise.
Add a little salt and sugar. Begin to combine the dough with a oiled spatula, continue adding flour until it starts to come together.
Begin kneading—it will be sticky—and continue adding flour. Oil on hands will help.
Add a little oil if it is needed (not more than 1 tbsp) and continue kneading until the dough is elastic.
Place the dough in a covered food-safe plastic container large enough to accommodate the expanding dough.
Allow dough to rise somewhere warm. Check on it in around 2 hours—once it doesn't bounce back when poked, it is ready for filling.
Filling
Combine tuna, pineapples, peanuts, and seasoning powder, and mix until the tuna has a paste-like consistency. Pineapple pieces should be small.
Add a little barbecue sauce; it should be moist but not too wet.
Optionally add 1 tbsp pineapple juice, which will make it sweet.
Add mustard according to taste.
Let rest, uncovered, for around 2 hours
Assembly
Take a piece of dough slightly larger than a golf ball and flatten in your hand. Don't make this too thin.
Add filling and fold closed by pinching around the edges (google "folding bao" for help with this step). For plain bao they can be log-shaped.
Add to steamer with boiling water, and steam 10–12 minutes.
Serve hot.

# Cookbook:Sweet and Sour Chinese Pork
Jing du or sweet-and-sour pork is a Chinese dish of fried and glazed pork.
Ingredients
1 America's cut pork (boneless loin roast) per person, cut in 1-inch squares and pounded flat
Marinade
3 tbsp dry sherry or Chinese rice wine
2 tbsp soy sauce
2 tsp cornstarch
¼ cup catsup
2 tbsp rice vinegar
1 tbsp soy sauce
1 tbsp Worcestershire sauce
½ tsp hot pepper or chili-garlic sauce
1 tbsp sugar
1 egg, lightly beaten
2 tsp cornstarch
¼ cup extra-light olive oil or vegetable oil
1 tsp minced ginger
1 tsp minced garlic
1 tbsp cilantro (optional)
Procedure
Mix the marinade ingredients in a large bowl and add the meat. Mix well to cover the meat and refrigerate for 2 hours (or overnight).
Combine sauce ingredients and set aside.
Remove pork from refrigerator and remove excess liquid (if any).
Beat egg and cornstarch and cover meat mixing well.
Place 2 tbsp oil in a wok and cook half the meat until no longer pink when slashed (about 2 minutes).
Remove meat, add remaining oil, and cook remaining meat.
Set cooked meat aside and discard pan drippings.
Add ginger and garlic to wok, stirring and cooking until fragrant.
Return pork to wok quickly stirring and add the sauce (stand back when adding sauce or it will really clear your sinuses).
Stir meat and sauce until meat is well covered, serve immediately.
Notes, tips, and variations
Extra light olive oil is used to avoid adding olive oil flavor to the dish.

# Cookbook:Taro Fish
Ingredients
1 small taro
2 sheets nori
1 tsp preserved black beans
2-inch piece of ginger
1 green pepper
2 spring onions
1 tsp vegetable stock powder
2 tbsp Shaoxing rice wine
Vegetable oil
Procedure
Peel and chop taro into 1-inch chunks. Steam until soft.
Meanwhile soak black beans in a little water.
Mash taro with the vegetable stock powder.
Place 2 sheets of nori on the bench, moistening one to join them together.
Place the mashed taro mixture in the centre of the sheets and roll the nori sheets over the top.
Cut the nori at one end to resemble fish fins.
Slice green pepper, ginger and spring onions into thin strips and stir fry for a few minutes.
Add the Shaoxing wine and black beans.
Make cuts halfway through the taro fish at about 1 inch intervals and pour the sauce over it.
Serve on a platter.

# Cookbook:Wonton Soup
Wonton filling is essentially stir-fry, but with smaller particles and less cooking. It goes hot into a wonton wrapper (equal to ¼ of an egg roll wrapper), which is then cooked in a hot broth.
Note that these wontons do not contain cabbage or carrots, which are used by commercial wonton producers to cheapen the filling. The filling in these wontons is superior.
Ingredients
Wonton wrappers, or egg roll wrappers cut into quarters
Chicken broth, dashi, or plain miso soup broth
Meat or poultry (suggested: chicken or pork)
Bok choy, or celery and perhaps spinach
Broccoli
Bean sprouts
Powdered ginger
Soy sauce
Bamboo shoots
Oil to fry the filling, possibly including sesame oil
Procedure
Filling
Cut the meat into tiny pieces. This is much easier to do if the meat is cooked, but the result will be better if you cut the meat raw, then cook it.
Cut the bamboo shoots into matchsticks.
Chop the broccoli head into little pieces, perhaps ⅜-inch diameter. Cut the stalk into matchsticks.
If using celery, cut the stalks lengthwise into ¾-inch wide pieces and then crosswise into ⅛-inch slices.
If using bok choy, cut the leaves away from the stalk. Treat the stalks as celery. Cut the leaves crosswise in ½-inch strips, then break the strips into 1.5-inch pieces.
If using spinach, treat it much like the bok choy leaves.
Wash the bean sprouts, discarding any that are not white and crisp.
Place oil in a wok and turn on the heat. High temperatures can produce a better result, but require rapid stirring to prevent burning. Beginners should use lower temperatures. Split the cooking into batches as needed to ensure that your wok is not too full; there should be plenty of room to stir and toss the food. You may prefer to cook each ingredient separately, then mix them at the end.
Add the meat. If it is uncooked, lightly stir-fry it now. Drain juices and add more oil as needed.
You may add a small amount of sesame seed oil and/or sesame seeds for flavor.
Add soy sauce. For a typical wok full of food, add a tablespoon.
Add ginger. About ½ teaspoon of ginger should be right, depending on taste. Ginger is somewhat hot.
Add the broccoli, and the celery and/or bok choy stalks. When done, they should be just slightly softened. Broccoli should end up being very bright green, losing its bluish cast but not gaining any hint of a yellow-brown cast.
Add bok choy leaves and/or spinach. When done, they should be just barely wilted.
Add the bamboo shoots and bean sprouts, and turn off the heat. Do not overcook the bean sprouts.
Construction and boiling
Begin heating water or chicken broth to cook the wontons. You will need this pot to be at a high simmer or low boil to cook the wontons, though such temperatures can damage the taste of dashi and miso soup. Thus, if using dashi or miso soup, you must do the initial cooking in water.
Place a small amount of filling onto a wonton wrapper. Pull the corners of the wrapper up, so that all four corners touch each other. Pinch and/or fold the edges to seal the wonton. Repeat as needed.
Gently lower some wontons into the pot. Do not overfill the pot. Initially, wontons are easy to unseal by accident. While these cook, you can make more wontons.
Cook the wontons for 3 minutes. Remove them with a slotted spoon and place them aside. Keep adding and removing wontons until all are cooked.
To serve, place some wontons in a bowl and pour your choice of liquid over them.
Notes, tips, and variations
You can use tamale filling.

# Cookbook:Wonton Wrappers
Wonton wrappers are thin pasta-like wrappers used for wontons. They are suitable for wonton soup. Oversize (7-inch / 45 cm square) wrappers may be used as egg roll wrappers. Round wrappers are best for making potstickers.
Most people will prefer to buy wrappers ready-made. This is especially easy for wontons, because egg roll wrappers may be cut in quarters to make wonton wrappers. Look in a supermarket near the tofu and Asian mushrooms.
For the stubbornly determined expert cook though, here is a recipe.
Ingredients
2 cups flour
1 teaspoon salt
⅓–½ cups water
Procedure
Sift flour and salt into a large bowl; create a well-like indentation in the center.
Beat egg lightly, pour into indentation in the flour and mix well.
Sprinkle with cold water, wet your hands, and knead the mixture into a smooth dough.
Place dough in a bowl and cover with a damp cloth, refrigerate for 30 minutes to an hour.
Sprinkle a wide work area or board with flour. Roll out the dough until it is paper thin and its edges are even in thickness. The wonton skins will be partially transparent.
Cut dough in 2–3-inch (5–7.5 cm) strips, flour lightly, then stack one on top of the other and cut the strips into 2–3-inch (5–7.5 cm) squares.
Place skins on tray and cover with a damp cloth until ready to use.
Recipes
Potsticker (Gyoza) (circles are best; hexagons may make sense)
Wonton Soup
Egg Roll (make 7-inch / 18 cm) squares)

# Cookbook:Agedashi Tofu
Agedashi tofu (or agedashi dofu) 揚げ出し豆腐 is a simple Japanese way to serve hot tofu. Silken (kinugoshi) firm tofu, cut into cubes, is lightly dusted with potato starch or cornstarch and then deep fried until golden brown. It's then served in a hot tentsuyu broth made of dashi, mirin, and shoyu (Japanese soy sauce), and topped with finely chopped green onions or grated daikon. It is eaten with chopsticks.
Ingredients
4–6 oz (~115–170 g) soft tofu
Potato starch or corn starch
Oil for deep frying
½ cup (120 ml) dashi
2 Tbsp (30 ml) light soy sauce
1½ Tbsp (22.5 ml) mirin
Green onions, thinly sliced
Grated ginger
Grated daikon (white radish)
Procedure
Cut the soft tofu into rectangular pieces about 1 inch thick.
Arrange the layers on rack with paper towels and leave for 10–15 minutes to drain. Change the paper and turn over the slices.
In pan, mix sauce ingredients, and heat in a pan until boiling. Turn off the heat.
Sprinkle starch on a plate. Arrange the tofu slices on it. Sprinkle more starch over the tofu.
Heat the oil to 355°F (180°C) for deep frying.
Pat any excess starch off the tofu slices and slide them into the hot oil, one by one. Don't add too many slices at once, because the tofu lowers the oil temperature. Fry until golden, turning once.
Remove and drain on paper towels.
Arrange the tofu in a dish, and pour the sauce over top. Top with a mound of grated daikon (radish), a bit of grated ginger, and sliced green onions.

# Cookbook:Beef Yakiniku Pizza
Yakiniku is a Japanese term referring broadly to grilled or barbecued meat dishes. This recipe tops pizza dough with a yakiniku-style beef stir-fry.
Ingredients
600 g high-protein flour
200 g low-protein flour
15 g instant yeast
3 tbsp sugar
75 ml cold water
¾ tsp salt
Topping
2 tbsp vegetable oil
½ big onion, chopped
½ red capsicum, cut into 10 pieces
600 g tenderloin beef, cut into 2 x 1 x 1 cm pieces
100 ml water
2 tbsp mirin
2 tbsp light soy sauce
2 tbsp oyster sauce
2 tbsp cornstarch, dissolved with 20 ml water
1 tbsp salt
1 tbsp sugar
Spreading
5 tbsp tomato sauce
Procedure
Combine flours, yeast, sugar, water, and salt to make a dough.
Cover with plastic wrap, and rest the dough 10 minutes until expanded.
Topping
Heat the oil in a non-stick pan. Add the onion and capsicum, and sauté for 10 seconds.
Add the tenderloin and the water. Add the mirin, soy sauce, and oyster sauce.
Add the dissolved cornflour, salt, and sugar. Stir until well-mixed and slightly thickened.
Separate the solids from the extra sauce. Reserve the sauce to serve with the pizza.
Finishing
Roll out the pizza dough to a 10 cm diameter. Spread the meat topping on top.
Bake pizza in the oven at 220°C for 20 minutes.
Serve hot with the dipping sauces.

# Cookbook:Carrots Cooked Kinpira Style
Kinpira is a Japanese cooking term that roughly translates to sauté and simmer. The aim is to cook root vegetables such as carrots and burdock root in a minimum amount of water so that they end up tenderly cooked and with none of their flavour or nutritional value lost into discarded cooking water.
Ingredients
250 g (½ lb) carrots, julienned
1 Tbsp vegetable oil, preferably sesame oil
Tamari or shoyu soy sauce, to taste
Procedure
Cut the carrots into thin matchstick pieces (sen-giri, or julienned)
Pour a small amount of oil into a saucepan and sauté the carrot pieces briefly
Add just enough water to half-cover the carrot pieces
Place the lid on the pot and let the carrots simmer briefly on medium-low heat
Add a little tamari or shoyu to enhance flavour. Serve.

# Cookbook:Daifuku (Sweet Filled Mochi)
Daifukumochi (大福餅), or Daifuku (大福) (literally "great luck"), is a Japanese confection consisting of a small round mochi (glutinous rice cake) stuffed with sweet filling, most commonly anko, sweetened red bean paste made from azuki beans.
Daifuku comes in many varieties. The most common is white, pale green or pale pink colored mochi filled with anko. These come in two sizes, one approximately the diameter of a half-dollar coin, the other palm-sized. Some versions contain whole pieces of fruit, mixtures of fruit and anko or crushed melon paste. Nearly all daifuku are covered in a fine layer of potato or taro starch to keep them from sticking to each other, or to the fingers. Some are covered with confectioner's sugar or cocoa.
Ingredients
Anko filling
~½ cup potato starch (katakuriko)
1 cup sweet glutinous rice flour (mochiko)
⅔ cup water
¼ cup white granulated sugar
Procedure
Prepare anko filling as directed. Shape into 12 small, marble-sized balls and set aside.
Prepare a smooth surface, such as a cutting board, by coating with potato starch; be generous, as the dough will be very sticky.
Heat water and sugar together in a microwave until sugar is dissolved. Add rice flour and stir completely. Microwave for 2 minutes, remove and stir. Microwave for 2 more minutes, or until dough begins to expand. Remove from microwave, stir again, and remove the dough to the potato starch-coated surface. The dough, called mochi, will be very hot.
Spread or roll the mochi dough out until thin. Using a knife, cut into 12 even sized pieces.
Coat the palms and fingers of your hands in potato starch. Spread each piece out as thin as possible.
Place an anko ball in the middle of each mochi piece, then wrap the mochi around the ball, forming a bigger ball.
Roll shaped daifuku in potato starch, and set on a plate dusted with potato starch or a piece of wax paper.
Serve warm or cool. Store in an airtight container. Very perishable.
Notes, tips, and variations
Chocolate ganache may be substituted for anko paste.
Food coloring may be added to the water before the rice flour is mixed in.
Cocoa powder may be used instead of potato starch in the final step.

# Cookbook:Daigakuimo (Japanese Candied Sweet Potato)
Daigakuimo (Japanese: 大学芋) is a dish of Japanese candied sweet potato.
Ingredients
1 pound (½ kg) Japanese sweet potatoes
⅓ cup white granulated sugar
1 tsp soy sauce
2 tbsp water
1 tsp sesame seeds
vegetable oil for frying
Procedure
Cut sweet potatoes into bite-sized pieces.
Heat the oil and fry the sweet potatoes at 350°F (175°C) until brown.
Mix water, sugar, and soy sauce in a saucepan. Put the pan on low heat.
When the liquid turns sticky, remove from the heat and add fried sweet potatoes. Quickly mix the potatoes with the sticky sugar.
Sprinkle sesame seeds over the coated sweet potatoes.

# Cookbook:Dashi (Japanese Soup Stock)
Dashi is a traditional Japanese broth that forms the foundation of many Japanese dishes. It is made by extracting umami compounds from ingredients such as kelp (kombu), bonito flakes (katsuobushi), and dried sardines (niboshi). Dashi adds depth and subtle flavor to soups, stews, and simmered dishes.
Types of Dashi
Dashi can be roughly classified into four main types:
Kombu dashi — Made from kelp, rich in glutamic acid. It has a refined sweetness and mild aroma.
Katsuobushi dashi — Made from bonito flakes, full of inosinic acid, and known for its fragrant aroma.
Niboshi dashi — Made from dried sardines or anchovies, containing both glutamic and inosinic acids for a strong umami and rich flavor.
Awase dashi — A blend of kombu and bonito dashi, combining the umami and aroma of both ingredients for a deep, balanced taste.
Instant or Granulated Dashi — Available as powdered or granulated mixes in most supermarkets. Provides quick and convenient dashi for soups and simmered dishes. Salt content may vary, so adjust seasoning as needed.
Ingredients
Use any of the following (to taste):
Dried kelp (kombu)
Dried bonito flakes (katsuobushi)
Dried mackerel flakes (sababushi)
Dried sardines or anchovies (niboshi)
Clams (asari or shijimi)
Dried shiitake mushrooms (hoshi-shiitake)
Dried flying fish (ago or tobiuo)
Granulated or powdered instant dashi (optional for quick preparation)
Procedure
Kombu dashi
Wipe kombu gently with a damp cloth (do not wash under running water).
Soak the kombu in water for about 30 minutes.
Heat slowly and remove kombu just before the water boils.
Simmer gently for 5 minutes, then strain.
Katsuobushi dashi
Lightly rinse bonito flakes.
Bring water to a boil, add flakes, and simmer for about 1 minute.
Remove from heat; once the flakes sink, strain through a fine sieve or cheesecloth.
Niboshi dashi
Remove heads and guts from sardines or anchovies.
Place in a pot with water and bring to a boil.
Simmer gently for 5 minutes, then strain.
Awase dashi
Prepare both kombu and katsuobushi dashi separately.
Combine in desired proportions for a richer flavor.
Instant or Granulated Dashi
Dissolve the desired amount of granulated or powdered dashi in hot water according to package instructions.
Adjust seasoning as needed for taste.
Dashi is versatile and used in many dishes:
Simmered dishes — enhances the natural taste of vegetables and proteins.
Soups — base for miso soup or clear soups.
Hot pots — acts as a flavorful soup base for meat, tofu, and vegetables.
Storage
Store fresh dashi in the refrigerator for 2–3 days in a sealed container after cooling.
Freeze in ice cube trays or freezer bags for longer storage.
Granulated or powdered dashi can be stored at room temperature in a cool, dry place.
Notes, tips, and variations
Both kombu and fish flakes are available in most Asian supermarkets or online.
Katsuobushi is often sold in small single-serving packets or mesh bags for easy removal. An 80 g bag yields roughly 4 L of stock.
Instant dashi provides convenience but may be saltier than homemade stock. Adjust seasoning accordingly.
Homemade dashi results in a richer, more complex flavor than most instant varieties.
See also
Miso soup
Japanese cuisine

# Cookbook:Grilled Aubergine
Ingredients
1 ea. (375 g) large aubergine (eggplant)
Vegetable oil
2 tablespoons miso paste
1½ tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons soup stock
1 teaspoon white sesame seeds
Procedure
Wash the aubergine, and cut it into 2.5 cm slices lengthwise.
Brush the cut surfaces with oil.
Grill 7–10 cm from the source of the heat until the aubergine is tender and browned all over (about 5 minutes).
In a small saucepan combine the miso, sugar, and soup stock. Cook, stirring, over low heat until the mixture is smooth and hot. Do not let it boil.
Pour the sauce mixture over the aubergine.
In a small frying pan toast the sesame seeds until they jump, then sprinkle them over the aubergine.

# Cookbook:Gunkanmaki (Topped Oval Sushi)
Gunkanmaki ("battleship roll") is a variety of sushi where a oval-shaped piece of sushi rice is wrapped with nori and topped.
Ingredients
Sushi rice
Common toppings
Uni (sea urchin) roe
Salmon roe
Negitoro (minced raw tuna)
Sliced cucumber
Quail egg
Procedure
Cut nori into strips 1 inch wide and long enough to fully surround your sushi rice with at least 1 inch of overlap.
Form the sushi rice into oval pieces approximately 1 inch wide by 1¼ inch long by 1 inch high.
Starting with one end of a nori strip, fully wrap the nori around the sushi rice. Wet the inside of the overlapping nori, and press over the first end to seal the roll.
Stand the rolled rice up, and place the desired topping(s) on top of the roll as shown in the images.
Gallery
Salmon roe gunkanmaki
Minced tuna gunkanmaki
Sea urchin gunkanmaki
Corn gunkanmaki
Natto gunkanmaki

# Cookbook:Gyudon (Japanese Beef and Rice Bowl)
Gyudon, often literally translated as 'beef bowl', is a Japanese dish consisting of rice topped with beef and onion simmered in a mildly sweet sauce flavored with dashi, soy sauce, and mirin. It also often includes shirataki noodles. Gyudon is a very popular food in Japan, and it is commonly served with beni shōga (pickled ginger), shichimi seasoning, and a side dish of miso soup. Gyū means "cow" or "beef", and don is short for donburi, the Japanese word for "bowl".
Ingredients
2 eggs
200 g thinly-sliced beef
½ onion, cut into wedges
1 tablespoon sake
1 tablespoon sugar
1 tablespoon mirin
2 tablespoons soy sauce
100 ml water
½ teaspoon dashi
5 g ginger, grated
Steamed rice
Beni shōga (pickled ginger)
Shichimi seasoning
Scallions, chopped
Procedure
Cover the eggs in boiling water, and let them sit for 20 minutes so they are soft inside and not hard. Carefully peel off the shell.
Boil the beef and drain the water.
Combine sake, mirin, soy sauce, and sugar in a frying pan. Stir over at medium heat.
Add beef and cook. Before all the sauce evaporates, remove the beef.
Add water, dashi, grated ginger, and onions to the sauce. Cover and boil.
Mix in the beef.
Put the steamed rice in a bowl, and top with the sauced meat.
Arrange the soft egg and pickled ginger on top. Top with scallions and shichimi seasoning.
External links
Video instructions

# Cookbook:Inarizushi (Stuffed Sushi)
Inarizushi (稲荷寿司, "stuffed sushi") encloses sushi rice and filling in a pocket made of paper-thin omelet, fried tofu, or a cabbage leaf. What follows is the recipe for a version of the recipe which uses omelet (egg) as a wrapper instead of the traditional fried tofu (Japanese: abura a-ge).
Ingredients
4 extra-large eggs
2 teaspoons (8 ml) sake
1 teaspoon (4 ml) sugar
⅛ teaspoon (½ ml) salt
1 teaspoon (4 ml) cornstarch
1 tablespoon (12 ml) cold water
Fresh sushi rice
Special equipment
Mixing bowl
Mixing cup, for the cornstarch thickener
Makiyakinabe pan (a Japanese rectangular omelet pan), or a regular frying pan
Procedure
Wrapper
Break the eggs into the bowl. Removing the egg white clinging to the yolk will make for a smoother and more uniform surface.
Add the sake, sugar, and salt.
Beat the mixture to produce a smooth, consistent texture, but not so much as to create a foam. If you accidentally get air bubbles, let the bowl sit for a few minutes while they pop.
Dissolve the cornstarch in the water—it will be closer to a paste than a fluid—and then add it to the egg mix.
Heat the pan over medium heat. If you are not using a non-stick pan, you will need to oil the surface.
Pour 3–4 tablespoons (40–50 ml) of the egg mixture all at once onto the pan.
Swirl the pan to spread the mixture thinly and evenly.
Allow the mixture to cook until the edges start to dry out. Remove the pan from the heat, and let the egg mixture continue to cook for 30 seconds from the heat in the pan.
Flip the omelet over and return the pan to the heat for 30 seconds.
Remove the omelet from the pan, and allow it to cool. You can store these omelets in the refrigerator for a few days.
Assembly
Shape the sushi rice into oblong shapes.
Place a piece of sushi rice in the center of one of the egg wrappers.
Fold the edges of the wrapper over to enclose the rice.

# Cookbook:Japanese Pickled Plums (Umeboshi)
Umeboshi (梅干, pickled Japanese plum) is a kind of pickled food. It is one of the Japanese traditional foods and it has been popular in Japan. It is red and round, and its taste ranges from sour to sweet. The texture can range from dry and crunchy to saturated and "globby", depending on the method used to preserve it.
Ingredients
Japanese plums
Salt, measured to 20% by weight of the plums
Procedure
Sterilize a jar and utensils with potable alcohol or boiling water.
Remove any damaged plums. Wash the remaining plums, and wipe them dry.
Remove the plum stems and any woody bits, making sure not to damage the fruit.
Cover plums with cold water and let stand overnight.
Drain water and place drained plums in a larger, non-reactive (i.e. glass or ceramic) container.
Evenly layer the salt and plums in the container, making sure the plums are well coated with salt.
Place a non-reactive plate directly on top of plums in their container. Place a weight on top of the plate to weight down the plums—this helps ensure the plums become submerged in brine.
Cover the container with a clean cloth to keep out debris, and place in a cool dark place to pickle.
Check the container after 3 days—pickling liquid should be forming and submerging the plums. There should be no mold growth—if there is a very small amount, you can carefully remove it with clean utensils. It is important to keep the plums fully submerged in the pickling liquid to prevent mold growth and rotting.
Re-weight the plums, and leave to pickle for another 3–4 weeks.
Remove the plums from the pickling liquid, and arrange over a bamboo mat or other woven tray that won't keep the moisture in. Set them outside in hot, dry, sunny weather, and allow them to dry for three full days.
Strain the pickling liquid, and boil it to remove any impurities.
Rub salt into the shiso to remove scum. Squeeze the shiso to remove liquid.
Put the plums, shiso, and boiled liquid back into a clean jar, and store in the fridge.
Notes, tips, and variations
The high salt proportion inhibits microbial growth and ensures that the plums pickle properly—don't reduce it.
A variety of items can be used to weight down the plums. Examples include a heavy, clean rock; a bottle of water; a bag of pie weights; a heavy crock or pot/pan; etc. The weight should be clean and should not touch the plums directly.
Damaged plums can increase the likelihood of mold growth, so it's important not to use them.
Adding red shiso leaves to the pickling mixture yields redder plums and a deep red plum vinegar. If you want to do this, measure the shiso leaves to 20% of the weight of the plums. Wash and dry the shiso, then measure out salt to 10% of the shiso weight. Massage the shiso and salt together well for several minutes to release its astringent liquid, then squeeze out the shiso and discard all the liquid. Repeat the salting and massaging process with the same amount of salt as before, and discard the liquid again. The shiso should be added to the pickling mixture once the pickling liquid has covered the plums.

# Cookbook:Makizushi (Maki Roll)
Makizushi, also called rolled sushi or maki roll, is a variety of sushi. It is made by layering nori, seasoned sushi rice, and fillings, before rolling up and slicing into individual pieces. The outer layer of the maki roll varies, having either nori or rice on the exterior—the latter is sometimes called an inside-out roll.
Ingredients
Prepared sushi rice
Fillings, as desired (this may consist of either raw/smoked salmon, tuna, etc or perhaps cucumber or avocado)
Nori sheets
Wasabi paste
Sesame seeds, if making inside-out rolls with rice on outside (optional)
Equipment
Sushi roller (makisu)
Plastic wrap, if making inside-out rolls
Instructions
Place the roller on a cutting board. If making inside-out rolls with rice on the outside, wrap the roller in a double layer of plastic wrap to prevent rice from sticking to the roller.
Place a sheet of nori shiny side-down on top of the roller.
Dampen your hands before applying the rice. Grab the rice with one hand and put a fistful on the center of the nori. Spread the rice over the nori approximately 6 mm thick, leaving a 2 cm gap on the side parallel to the bamboo. As a general rule, if you can't see the nori through the rice, you have too much.
If making an inside out roll, flip over the nori and rice quickly onto the sushi roller. The rice should now be on on the surface of the plastic wrap, with the nori facing you.
Place the primary ingredients in a row in the middle. Slowly use the roller to push the nori against itself (rolling it away from you), using your thumbs and heels of hands for stability. Be careful when you reach the row of ingredients, making sure that it goes underneath the roll rather than just being pushed along.
When you reach the end of the nori sheet, use the roller to compact the roll a little, making sure the rice sticking it together. When evening out a bumpy roll, don't squeeze too hard on the sides and don't flatten the roll from the top.
To fix the ends of the roll, poke about ½ inch out from one side of mat and while gently holding it in place, press it with the heel of your hand a little.
Remove the maki from the sushi roller, and put it on the cutting board below.
Wet a sharp knife before slicing. Slice the rolls from the center outwards, into sections of 5, 6, or 8 (depending on the roll and your preference). Cutting from the center first ensures that all ingredients will shift towards the outside two pieces. For the rolls of 6 or 8, cut from the center, then put one roll behind the other, and cut each half in half.
If making an inside-out roll, you may garnish the exterior rice with sesame seeds.
Serve with soy sauce for dipping. You may also want chopsticks, pickled ginger, and wasabi if culture allows. Sashimi, miso soup, other sushi, or just general Japanese food is also often served alongside it. Green tea is considered the drink of choice to have with sushi.
Notes and tips
Dampening the hands before handling the rice will prevent clumping and the rice sticking to your hands. However, too much moisture may also make the rice less sticky, so don't go overboard.
Variations
Common maki rolls include:
California roll: avocado, crab meat or imitation crab, cucumber.
Tuna roll: Tuna, wrapped in rice and seaweed. This same combination is used to make plain rolls with any other type of fish.
Spicy tuna roll: Tuna, spicy sauce (mixture of Japanese mayonnaise and sriracha)
Kamikaze roll: Tuna, yellowtail, spicy sauce
Philadelphia roll: Salmon (either raw or smoked), cream cheese
Cucumber roll: Sliced cucumber
Egg roll: Sliced egg yolk.

# Cookbook:Meat and Potatoes in Broth (Niku Jaga)
Niku jaga (肉じゃが nikujaga meaning 'meat and potatoes') is a common Japanese household dish served at dinnertime.
Ingredients
200 g (7.1 oz) sliced beef
4 small potatoes (red potatoes recommended)
1 white onion, sliced
1½ cups water
2 tbsp mirin
3 tbsp soy sauce
2 tbsp sugar
1 slice of ginger
100 g (3.53 oz) shirataki noodles
Procedure
Cut potatoes into bite-sized pieces. Set aside to soak in cold water.
Combine mirin, soy sauce, sugar, ginger, and beef in a saucepan. Boil lightly for 2–3 minutes.
Remove beef from pan. Add potatoes, sliced onion, and water. Bring to a boil.
Simmer uncovered until the broth reduces to about ⅓ by volume.
Replace beef in pan, add shirataki noodles, and simmer for roughly 5 minutes.
Remove from heat and serve.
Notes, tips, and variations
Pork can be substituted for the beef. Vary the amount of potatoes to taste.
The level of liquid does not need to, and in fact should not, completely cover the potatoes at the start of boiling. They will cook via steam, and the comparatively small volume of the liquid helps to concentrate the flavor.
Real mirin is important for preventing the potatoes from crumbling apart, especially when using Russets—it contains certain special sugars that prevent over-softening.

# Cookbook:Miso Soup
In traditional Japanese cuisine, miso soup is served for breakfast every day, and often served with meals as well.
Ingredients
½ tsp sesame oil
3 cups water
2 tbsp miso
2 green onions (optional), finely minced
½ cake tofu (optional), cut into ½-inch cubes
2–3 fresh mushrooms (optional), thinly sliced
5–6 shrimp (optional), cubed or shredded
Some pieces of seaweed (optional)
Procedure
Heat oil in a small pot.
Add green onion. Cook for a few minutes while stirring frequently.
Add 2 ½ cups of water. Bring to a boil.
Dissolve miso in remaining ½ cup of water and add to pot.
Lower heat and add mushrooms, seaweed, and tofu, if desired.
References
↑ "特集「目覚めにぴったり!朝の味噌汁」：農林水産省" [Special "Wake Up Perfectly! Morning Miso Soup": Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries] (in Japanese). Retrieved 2025-02-01.

# Cookbook:Miso Soup (Traditional)
This recipe is for a traditional miso soup. Wakame with tofu is a standard and popular combination, especially at restaurants.
Ingredients
90–94% by volume dashi (consider using instant dashi mix)
6–10% by volume miso (red, white, or a combination)
Garnish
Any 2–3 of the following items that contrast in color, flavor, buoyancy, shape, texture, etc:
Finely sliced and deep-fried tofu (agedashi tofu)
Cubed raw silky tofu (recommended)
Wakame seaweed (recommended)
Konbu (kelp), perhaps left over from making dashi
Spinach
Sliced scallion (recommended)
Grated daikon radish
Boiled and finely cubed potato
Clams (asari or shijimi)
Grated eggplant
Shrimp
Mushrooms
Procedure
Put dashi in a pot.
Add any garnish that needs cooking.
Heat the dashi, letting it simmer to cook any garnish that needs cooking. Do not bring to a rolling boil, as this degrades the flavor.
Add any garnish that does not need cooking, and remove from heat.
Add the miso to the soup. Avoid boiling the miso; some nuances of the flavor will be lost.
Notes, tips, and variations
While certainly a traditional food, miso soup is also suited to modern interpretations. Using oil leftover from frying bacon and adding caramelized onion and cabbage produces a soup notably different from the traditional variety, and can add new interest to a classic dish. A small quantity of freshly ground black pepper added just before serving rounds out this method very well.

# Cookbook:Natto (Japanese Fermented Soybeans)
Natto is a Japanese preparation of fermented soybeans. When making it, be sure all utensils, pots, cheesecloth, etc. are as sterile as possible. If not, then boil utensils for 5 minutes prior to using. The fermentation process requires the natto be kept at approximately 100°F (38°C) for 22–24 hours. Ovens with a low temperature setting can be used, as can large cube-shaped food dehydrators.
Ingredients
2 lbs (about 4 cups) soybeans
2 tsp boiled (sterilized) water
1 spoonful nattomoto powder
Equipment
Cheesecloth or butter muslin
Non-reactive pot
Large stainless steel spoon
3–4 oven-proof glass containers with lids
Procedure
Wash the soybeans and soak for 9–12 hours (longer soaking time recommended during colder months). Use approximately 3 parts water and 1 part soybeans to allow for expansion. You will have 8–12 cups of beans.
Drain the beans from the soaking water. Place beans in a large pot, fill with water and boil for 9 hours.
Drain the cooked beans and place in a sterilized pot. Dissolve one special spoonful of nattomoto into 2 tsp of sterilized water.
Immediately pour the nattomoto solution over the beans while the beans are still warm. Stir the beans and water mixture together carefully using a sterilized spoon.
Place a thin layer of beans in each of the 3–4 containers. If at any point during the process some beans are spilled on the counter, etc., discard the spilled beans as they can contaminate the other beans if added back in to the batch.
Place the sterilized cheese cloth over the top of the containers and place the tight-fitting lid over the cheese cloth. Preheat the oven, dehydrator, or KOTATSU Japanese Warmer to 100°F (38°C).
Place the covered containers in the oven, dehydrator, or warmer and allow the natto to ferment for 22–24 hours, making sure to keep the temperature steady at 100°F (38°C).
At the conclusion of the fermentation period, let the natto cool for a couple of hours, then remove the lid and the cloth, replace the lid, and store the containers in the refrigerator at least overnight. The Natto can be consumed as early as the next morning and are often served as a Japanese-style breakfast.
Notes, tips, and variations
Natto can be kept in the refrigerator for 3–4 days.
Smaller portions of finished natto can be stored in the freezer and thawed for later use.

# Cookbook:Nigiri Sushi
Nigiri, or nigirizushi, is a variety of sushi where a topping is placed on a small bed of seasoned sushi rice.
Ingredients
Sushi rice
Topping
Wasabi (as needed)
Nori (as needed)
Procedure
If making nigirizushi that requires a band of nori to hold the sushi together, cut the nori into strips about ¼ inch wide and long enough to wrap around the finished sushi with at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) of overlap. Place one such strip on the preparing surface.
Hand form the sushi rice into suitable sized sushi bases. Generally, this means a rectangular block about ½–1 inch wide, 1–1½ inch (2.5–4 cm) long, and ½–¾ inch (1.5–2 cm) high. It takes considerable experience to form pleasing sushi bases by hand (beginners may find a plastic sushi mold helpful for forming the bases). Wetting the hands in water prior to forming each sushi base keeps the rice from sticking to the hands.
For nigirizushi requiring wasabi between the rice and topping, add a small dab of wasabi on the rice.
Add the selected topping on top of the sushi rice.
If nori is used, wrap one of the nori band ends up and over the nigirisushi topping firmly, so that it sticks to the rice and topping. Wet the other nori band end with a small amount of water, and wrap it up and over the topping so that it overlaps the other nori end. The water causes the nori ends to stick together.
Common nigirizushi combinations
Broiled eel: sushi rice, broiled eel, nori band. Top with eel sauce and bonito and/or sesame seeds.
Salmon: sushi rice, raw salmon
Shrimp: sushi rice, cooked shrimp (clean and butterfly the shrimp prior to using)
Mackerel: sushi rice, mackerel
Tuna: sushi rice, raw tuna

# Cookbook:Okonomiyaki (Japanese Savory Pancake)
Okonomiyaki is a popular savory pancake dish in Japan. It consists of a batter made of flour, eggs, cabbage and green onions and other ingredients of your choice. The name means "as you like it" or "what you want" in Japanese.
Ingredients
1 cup all-purpose flour (or yam flour if you can get it)
1 cup water (or stock)
2 eggs
¾ cup finely sliced cabbage (about 2 inches long by ¼ inch wide)
2–3 green onions, chopped into ¼" rounds (use white part and freshest bit of green part)
¼ cup mozzarella cheese (optional; other cheese may be substituted)
10 small slices of chicken, bacon or beef (your choice)
Toppings
Okonomiyaki sauce (sold at Japanese markets)
Dried bonito flakes
Powdered nori (seaweed)
Procedure
Mix flour, water and eggs until smooth (about 25–30 strokes with a spoon or whisk; do not overmix.)
Gently fold in cabbage, green onions and cheese.
Heat a griddle or non-stick frying pan over medium heat. When pan is hot, add 1 tablespoon oil.
Add ⅓ cup of batter and flatten slightly. Fry for 2–3 minutes.
When pancake is golden brown on bottom, add toppings (chicken, bacon or beef, or other topping of your choice), and press into the batter slightly. Turn the pancake and fry for five minutes or until golden brown on other side.
Turn once more and fry topping side up for another minute.
To serve, place the okonomiyaki on a plate, top with bottled sauce, nori, and/or bonito flakes. Enjoy!

# Cookbook:Onigiri
Onigiri (also called omusubi) is a ball or triangle of hot or cold rice, often with a filling, frequently wrapped in nori making it easier to eat. It is a popular snack food, and is also common as part of a packed lunch. Depending on your location, some convenience store chains have shelves with a large selection of fresh onigiri for sale.
The most common form of onigiri has a filling in the center. This is often something sour or salty, as it helps preserve the rice for longer periods of time. Common fillings include umeboshi (Japanese pickled plum); katsuobushi (dried bonito flakes, often called "okaka" in this case) moistened in soy sauce; cooked, salted salmon ("sake"); cod roe ("tarako"); kombu; and canned tuna ("sea-chicken") with mayonnaise. Less common is onigiri with the filling mixed in with the rice, making it spread throughout the rice.
A related dish is yaki-onigiri, which is a plain onigiri without fillings that has been brushed with soy sauce or barbecue sauce and grilled. This is a common side dish in pubs. A creative variation is a yaki-onigiri in a bowl of dashi garnished with chopped leek and katsuobushi.
Ingredients
100 ml (½ cup) uncooked Japanese-style short grain rice
Filling of choice, such as any of the following: Umeboshi (pickled plums), stones removed Canned tuna, mixed with mayonnaise and seasoned to taste with chopped leeks, soy sauce, or chilies; sour or salty flavours work well. Cooked salmon Cooked egg Katsuobushi, moistened with a small amount of soy sauce
Umeboshi (pickled plums), stones removed
Canned tuna, mixed with mayonnaise and seasoned to taste with chopped leeks, soy sauce, or chilies; sour or salty flavours work well.
Cooked salmon
Cooked egg
Katsuobushi, moistened with a small amount of soy sauce
Nori sheets
Procedure
Cook the rice according to package or rice cooker directions. Let cool just enough to handle with your hands.
While the rice is cooking, prepare your fillings.
Fill a bowl with salt water to rinse your fingers and season the onigiri. You can fill and shape the onigiri using two different methods: Method 1: Wet your hands in the salt water. Take two large spoonfuls of rice into one hand (carefully; the rice is hot), and gently squeeze and flatten it with the other. Make an indentation in the middle, and put some of the filling into the center. Be a little careful to get the filling only in the center and not all over the ball; that can make the rice less sticky, and stickiness is good. "Fold" the rice over the filling so it becomes covered. Squeeze gently, and mold it into a triangular shape by folding both your hands along the palms while keeping the fingers straight. Squeeze like that, rotating the ball a few times, and you will soon have a very neat triangle—this really is much harder to explain than to do. Once the ball is done, put it down on a clean surface to cool down. Rinse your hands in the salt water and repeat. Method 2: Use a bowl and some plastic film. Place about ⅔ of the mixture into the centre of the cling wrap that has been draped into the bowl loosely. Then, add approximately 2 teaspoons of filling (this is working off of about 3–4 portions per cup of rice. Then, place the last ⅓ of the rice to the top. Then, mould the onigiri within the cling wrap. This drastically reduces mess and also is slightly more 'kid friendly'.
Method 1: Wet your hands in the salt water. Take two large spoonfuls of rice into one hand (carefully; the rice is hot), and gently squeeze and flatten it with the other. Make an indentation in the middle, and put some of the filling into the center. Be a little careful to get the filling only in the center and not all over the ball; that can make the rice less sticky, and stickiness is good. "Fold" the rice over the filling so it becomes covered. Squeeze gently, and mold it into a triangular shape by folding both your hands along the palms while keeping the fingers straight. Squeeze like that, rotating the ball a few times, and you will soon have a very neat triangle—this really is much harder to explain than to do. Once the ball is done, put it down on a clean surface to cool down. Rinse your hands in the salt water and repeat.
Method 2: Use a bowl and some plastic film. Place about ⅔ of the mixture into the centre of the cling wrap that has been draped into the bowl loosely. Then, add approximately 2 teaspoons of filling (this is working off of about 3–4 portions per cup of rice. Then, place the last ⅓ of the rice to the top. Then, mould the onigiri within the cling wrap. This drastically reduces mess and also is slightly more 'kid friendly'.
Once the balls are reasonably cool, you need to protect them from drying out. The easiest way is to wrap them in cling wrap, or put them into an airtight plastic food container. When it is time to eat, take one rice ball, wrap it in a piece of nori, and eat away. If you don't mind soggy nori, you can wrap the balls in nori beforehand.
Notes, tips, and variations
You must use Japanese-style short grain rice; if the rice isn't sticky, the onigiri won't hold together.
A rice cooker is recommended since it will be far more 'hands-off' and will also free up more time to prepare the fillings.
There is wide latitude on what you can use as a filling. Try experimenting!
It is a good idea to have a moderately large, clear workspace that is easy to clean afterwards. The rice is sticky, and you will end up getting it everywhere in the area.
Do not use refrigerated, cold rice. Do not refrigerate the onigiri after assembling. Store in lunch cooler or thermos—otherwise the rice gets hard and doesn’t taste good. You can freeze onigiri, then microwave them to defrost.
Fillings for onigiri are only limited to your imagination. One point to remember is to choose fillings that are not overly hard/crunchy. If they are reasonably hard they become quite difficult to eat. Western fillings that can be quite delicious include such things as corned meats, avocado, even olives or semidried tomatoes. A recommendation is to use fillings with a lot of flavour and cut into small pieces.

# Cookbook:Roasted Brown Rice Mochi
Ingredients
2 cups uncooked brown rice
2–2 ½ cups water
2 pinches sea salt
Procedure
Wash the rice and soak for a couple of hours or overnight.
Cook the rice in a pressure cooker until the liquid is absorbed.
Grind the cooked rice in a mortar until the grain is completely fluid and sticky. This will take at least 30 minutes of grinding when done by hand.
Shape the mash into 2 cm squares. Place the rice squares on an oiled plate and allow to dry for 1–2 days.
Keep covered in a cold dry room or in the refrigerator.
After this, roast the squares for 5 minutes in a pan.

# Cookbook:Simple Restaurant Miso Soup
This miso soup is a close approximation of what you get in most cheap western Japanese restaurants. All ingredients are to taste; the primary thing is the ratio of miso to dashi.
Ingredients
250 ml (1 cup) dashi
5 pieces of wakame
A few 1 cm cubes of medium-firm tofu
1 tablespoon (about 15 ml) miso paste (either white, red, or a mixture)
Procedure
Heat the dashi to a light simmer.
While this is heating, lay out your bowl and place the wakame and tofu in the bottom.
When the dashi simmers, take a ladle or so of liquid aside and mix it with the miso paste.
Remove the pot of dashi from the stove and stir in the miso mixture.
Ladle the prepared soup into the bowl and serve.
Notes, tips, and variations
Some prefer less miso, some prefer more. The quantity given results in the moderately-salty type popular in restaurants before meals.
Do not permit the miso to boil; doing so alters the flavour.

# Cookbook:Simple Soup Dashi (Japanese Soup Stock)
This dashi can be used to make a miso soup similar to those served in restaurants in North America.
Ingredients
3 large handfuls dried, smoked, thinly-shaved skipjack tuna (katsuobushi)
4–5 ea. 4-inch (10 cm) long sheets of kombu seaweed
4–8 cups (1–2 liters) water
Process
Cut small gashes into the kombu. Do not wash the kombu; the white powder on the exterior is actually natural, crystallized MSG and gives the soup flavour.
Place the kombu into the water and bring it to a boil, skimming the surface periodically
Just as the water begins to simmer, remove the kombu (this may be re-infused with less water a second time to make a lower-quality dashi suitable for cooking)
Let the stock cool down for approximately 5 minutes
Add the flaked tuna and stir, returning to heat
Permit it to boil for about 30 seconds and remove from heat
After a few minutes, the fish will sink to the bottom. Strain the stock through a fine mesh filter (cheesecloth works well), squeezing the fish to extract every bit of juice (this may be re-infused as well)
Store in the fridge for up to 5 days, and in the freezer for up to 6 months

# Cookbook:Spaghetti with Meat Sauce (Naporitan)
Naporitan or napolitan (ナポリタン) is the name of a pasta dish, which is popular in Japan. It is claimed to originate from Yokohama.
Ingredients
7 oz (170 g) spaghetti
1 green bell pepper, thinly sliced
½ small onion, thinly sliced
¼ lb (110 g) sausage or ham, sliced
⅓ cup ketchup
2 tsp butter
2 tsp vegetable oil
Salt, to taste
Pepper, to taste
Procedure
Put about 8 cups of water in a large pot, and add 2 tbsp salt. Bring to a boil on high heat and cook spaghetti according to package directions.
Meanwhile, heat vegetable oil in a large skillet and stir-fry onion, bell pepper, and sausage on medium heat until softened. Season with salt and pepper.
Add drained spaghetti in the skillet and stir-fry with other ingredients.
Add ketchup and stir-fry the spaghetti. Mix in butter and stop the heat.

# Cookbook:Spicy Miso Udon
This is a spicy miso udon soup made with dry udon noodles. This soup may be a little more challenging because the temperature must be controlled. The delicate flavors do not hold up against higher temperatures, so if this soup becomes too hot or reaches a boil it will be ruined.
Ingredients
1–2 cups chicken broth
2 oz katsuobushi (the flavor is mild so you can use more)
1 package dry udon noodles
12 thin slices of sucuk (Turkish sausage)
1 chopped green bell pepper or jalapeno pepper
Sliced onion
1 cup shredded cabbage
Hot paprika powder
1–2 tbsp red pepper paste
1 handful of bean sprouts
1 tbsp miso paste
½ tbsp honey or to taste
Tabasco sauce to taste
1 package enoki mushrooms
1 can good quality sardines
1–2 eggs
Chopped scallions for garnish
Procedure
Bring the chicken broth to a boil. Add the katsuobushi flakes, remove from heat, and let rest for 1 minute.
Strain out and discard the katsuobushi flakes, and set the broth aside.
Cook the udon noodles in salted water until al dente. Drain them, rinse with cold water, and set aside.
In a medium-sized soup pot, stir fry sucuk, green pepper, and onion in olive oil.
Add cabbage, paprika powder, and red pepper paste. Stir to combine.
Add reserved broth, and bring to a simmer over low to medium heat; do not let this get too hot because the flavor of the katsuobushi is very delicate.
Add bean sprouts. Continue to simmer until vegetables reach desired texture.
Add cooked noodles, miso, honey, and tabasco. Do not let the soup reach a boil, as too much heat will destroy the soup's rich flavor.
Add enoki and sardines, and simmer just enough to warm through.
Crack an egg or two into the broth, and serve when the the yolk is just firm
Garnish with scallions.
Notes, tips, and variations
This recipe uses dry wheat noodles, and the cooking procedure may be different than with "springy" style noodles that include tapioca and other ingredients.
This recipe can be made with chicken, pork, etc; if some type of meat is used instead of canned sardines, then the cooking procedure must be adapted to cook the meat.
True dashi is made with kelp broth, not chicken broth.

# Cookbook:Steamed Sweet Rice
Ingredients
1½ cups (360 ml) sweet glutinous rice (mochi gome)
Procedure
Place sweet glutinous rice in a medium bowl.
Wash rice thoroughly in cool water, rinsing and repeating until water is clear, drain, then return rice to bowl.
Add 3 cups (720 ml) water to the rice. Soak for 6 hours or overnight.
Drain well, spread rice evenly in a round, 8–9 inch (20 cm) shallow baking pan, and add ⅓ cup (80 ml) water.
In a wok, bring about 4 cups (950 ml) water to a boil over medium high heat.
Place a steamer tray in the wok.
Cover the pan of rice and place on the tray over the boiling water.
Steam for 30 minutes. If rice is not tender, sprinkle with 2–3 tablespoons of water, and steam it for 5 minutes more.
When tender, remove steamer tray from wok.

# Cookbook:Sukiyaki
Sukiyaki is a kind of shabu-shabu (a Japanese dish) but it is a bit sweeter.
Ingredients
Beef, sliced thin
1 napa cabbage
Green onions
Firm tofu
Shiitake mushrooms
Spinach
Shirataki noodles
Soy sauce
Procedure
Wash the vegetables, and cut them into large pieces.
Soak the mushrooms in warm water for 15 minutes.
Mix the sauce ingredients in a small bowl.
Heat an electric skillet on low heat, and grease with a little bit of oil.
Put a few slices of beef into the skillet, and cook them until brown.
Add sauce (don't add all of them at the same time).
Sort the beef slices to the sides. Add the rest of the ingredients in an organized fashion.
Serve the sukiyaki with bowls of rice, with a raw egg yolk as the dip. Add more ingredients as necessary.

# Cookbook:Sushi Rice
Sushi rice, termed sushi meshi or shari in Japanese, is a key ingredient for sushi and a staple of Japanese cooking. It consists of short-grain rice dressed with seasoned vinegar called sushisu. The rice is then cooled and dried for easy manipulation and to give a glistening appearance. The Japanese measure their uncooked rice using a measurement called a Gō. This is roughly equivalent to 150 grams when used to measure Japanese rice. One Gō is also the standard size of a rice cooker's measuring cup.
Ingredients
2 gō (300 g) uncooked, washed, short-grain Japanese rice
400 ml water
1 small sheet of kombu (optional)
1 metric tablespoon (15 ml) sake (optional)
Sushisu
3 metric tablespoons (45 ml) of rice vinegar
1–2 metric tablespoons (12–24 g) of sugar (depending on how sweet you prefer it)
1–1.5 metric teaspoons of sea salt
Equipment
Rice cooker
Hangiri (rice barrel; optional)
Shamoji (rice paddle; optional)
Fukin (cloth; optional)
Sensu (fan; optional)
Procedure
About 30 minutes before starting, fill the hangiri with water and let it stand. The water saturates the wood, which prevents the rice from sticking to it.
Make the sushisu: Mix the vinegar, sugar, and salt. Heat the mixture in a saucepan until everything is dissolved, but do not boil. Set aside to cool.
Rinse the rice. Put the rice in the cooking pot, half filled with cold water, and swirl it around with your hand. The water will turn chalky white. Carefully drain off the water, and repeat the process several times, until the water remains clear.
Allow the rice to stand for 30 minutes. Some recipes say the rice should remain in the cooking pot submerged in its cooking water; others say to transfer it temporarily to a colander to drain.
Add an 8 cm-sized sheet of kombu to the cooking pot, along with the sake if you are using it.
Boil the water in the cooking pot.
Remove the kombu from the cooking pot just as the water boils, and reduce the heat. Simmer the water and rice in the cooking pot for 20 minutes.
Turn off the heat but do not remove cover from the cooking pot for 10 minutes (no peeking).
Transfer the rice from the cooking pot to the hangiri; if you do not have one, use a large bowl or cookie sheet.
Cut the sushisu gently into rice with the paddle, trying not to break the kernels. For Western chefs: this "cutting" motion is similar to the cut-and-fold used for gentle treatment of egg whites. When finished, the rice is evenly coated with the dressing, giving it a shiny appearance.
Cover the rice with a cloth for a couple of minutes so the dressing is absorbed.
Cool the rice to body temperature by fanning it, while continuing to cut it with the spatula. A traditional hand fan or modern battery-powered fan may be used.
Notes, tips, and variations
A rice-cooker is often used instead of a cooking pot; these generally produce good, consistent results. The manufacturer's directions will generally be similar to the above.
The rice and sushisu should be mixed immediately after the rice is finished cooking with sushisu at room temperature.
Some sushi chefs prefer natural cooling, rather than fanning, and instead let the rice rest in the hangiri for 15 minutes, then re-cut the rice, and continue with this process until the rice is cool.
According to some, the faster the rice cools, the better (but see above about natural cooling, which yields a slightly different texture). The rice is best if used quickly: you can use it to make sushi for a few hours; it certainly cannot be prepared a day early.

# Cookbook:Tempura
Tempura is one of the fried foods of Japan. Various meats, fish, and vegetables are dipped in batter and then deep fried until lightly golden.
Ingredients
1 cup ice cold water
1 cup all-purpose flour
Oil for deep-frying (peanut oil is best)
Meat, vegetables, or seafood
Procedure
Heat oil in a deep pan to 340–350°F (~171–176°C).
Beat the egg in a bowl and add ice cold water. Warmer water will produce a sticky batter and more oily tempura.
Add flour and mix lightly. Do not overmix batter—a few lumps actually improve the result, adding crispiness.
Dip meat or vegetables briefly in the batter, and fry until brown.
Remove from the oil and drain.
Serve hot.
Notes, tips, and variations
If using shrimp, score them a few times crosswise on the underside, to prevent them from curling up during deep frying. Alternatively, skewer them before cooking. Remove the skewers before serving.
You may also wish to include 1 tablespoon of cornstarch in the batter.
Serve over white rice garnished with black sesame seeds, in a bowl of udon noodle soup, or in a bowl of soba noodle soup. Serving in soup will make the cooked batter get mushy, of course.

# Cookbook:Teriyaki Grilled Salmon Steaks
Ingredients
5 ea. (15 ounces / 425 g) salmon steaks
2 tbsp black pepper
1 tbsp canola oil
2 tbsp reduced-sodium soy sauce
¼ cup water
1 tbsp honey
2 tbsp minced ginger
2 tbsp minced garlic
Procedure
Season salmon with pepper.
Combine remaining ingredients to make teriyaki marinade.
Place on hot grill, and cook for 3–4 minutes on each side until flaky. Glaze with teriyaki marinade for the last 2 minutes.
Serve and enjoy.
Notes, tips, and variations
Garnish with fresh chopped cilantro, black/white sesame seeds, and/or chopped green onions.
For added heat, add paprika, cayenne, or red pepper flakes to marinade.
You can substitute olive oil for the canola oil based on preference.

# Cookbook:Teriyaki Salmon
Ingredients
4 ea. (24 ounces) wild salmon filets with skin, pin bones removed
½ cup soy sauce
1 tbsp minced ginger
2 tsp minced garlic
2 tbsp rice wine vinegar
1 ½ tsp grated lemon zest
1 tbsp light brown sugar
2 Thai bird chiles, stemmed
Sesame oil
Equipment
Kettle grill
Large chimney starter
Natural chunk or hardwood lump charcoal
Kitchen towel tied into a roll and soaked in vegetable oil
Gallon-size resealable plastic bags
Paper towels
Procedure
Combine all ingredients except salmon in a blender until smooth. Pour into a plastic bag and add salmon. Toss to coat, seal, removing as much air as possible, and refrigerate up to 4 hours.
Remove salmon from marinade and pat dry with paper towels. Brush all sides with oil.
Preheat 4½ pounds charcoal in starter. Once hot, disperse evenly around bottom of grill. Reapply grate and once hot, swab with towel.
Add salmon to hottest part of grill skin side up, and cook 3–5 minutes per side for medium, rotating 90 degrees halfway to make grill marks.
Remove to a plate and cover tightly with aluminum foil. Let rest 5 minutes before serving.

# Cookbook:Teriyaki Sauce
The word teriyaki is a combination of two Japanese words, teri, "luster", and yaki, "to grill or broil". The mirin in the sauce gives a good luster to meat as it is cooked. Traditionally it was used with fish. It can also be used as a marinade for pre-cooked meat and poultry, as well as a delicious baste for items on the grill or rotisserie. Teriyaki sauce is a complement to virtually any type of meat (as long as you adjust the flavors accordingly), especially steak, chicken, fish and pork.
Ingredients
¼ cup (2 parts) soy sauce
¼ cup (2 parts) mirin
2 tablespoons (1 part) brown sugar
1 tsp fresh, peeled, finely-chopped ginger
1 tsp fresh, peeled, finely-chopped garlic
A litte bit of sake (optional)
Procedure
Mix everything in a 1-quart pot over low heat until the sugar dissolves.
Use sauce to marinate some raw meat or vegetables overnight in the refrigerator.
Notes, tips, and variations
As given, this sauce is thin. Boil 1/2 tsp cornstarch or potato starch or kuzu root starch (for Japanese authenticity) into it if you wish to thicken it.
Pineapple juice might be a reasonable mirin substitute.
Lime juice may also be added for a tart flavor.

# Cookbook:Tonkatsu
Ingredients
Equal parts of:
Soy sauce
Worcestershire sauce
Ketchup
Tonkatsu
2 pork cutlets (boneless pork loin chop), about 1 cm thick
½ teaspoon kosher salt
⅛ teaspoon black pepper
1 egg (beaten)
2 tablespoons flour
½ cup panko (Japanese bread crumbs)
Vegetable oil for frying
Procedure
Combine the soy sauce, sugar, Worcestershire, and ketchup. Beat with fork until consistent.
If desired, chill sauce for a half hour to thicken.
Tonkatsu
Pound pork with meat mallet until thin, perhaps ¼ inch (a little more than 0.5 cm) thick. To reduce splatter you should put the meat in an open ziplock bag.
Season pounded cutlets with salt and pepper on each side.
Put beaten egg, flour, and bread crumbs in separate shallow bowls.
Place pork in the flour, then egg, then crumbs (in that order) so that it is completely coated with each.
Heat oil in a frying pan to about ½ inch or 1.25 cm deep. Drop in crumbs to test when the oil is ready—the crumbs should float and sizzle.
Fry pork until deep golden or golden brown, most likely a for a few minutes on either side.
With a sharp knife cut pork into strips.
Serve with Japanese short grain rice and thinly shredded cabbage.
Notes, tips, and variations
Pork can be substituted by chicken or beef.
Finished tonkatsu can be served as a topping to Japanese curry or simmered with egg and broth and served over rice as katsudon.

# Cookbook:Tonkotsu Ramen
Tonkotsu ramen is a dish of ramen noodles served in rich and fatty pork broth usually garnished with a variation of toppings (most of the time pork cutlets, green onions, and hard-boiled eggs split in two). There are many variations to this recipe. Some people add some chicken bones or beef bones to create a unique combination of flavors. A lot of the ingredients aren't available in just any grocery stores, but you shouldn't have a lot of trouble finding them at the Asian grocers in your local international district. You would be surprised on how much better tasting it is than the store bought instant ramen brands.
Ingredients
Marinated eggs
12 eggs in shells
1 lb diced pork hock meat
3 green onions, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 thumb-sized piece of ginger, sliced
2 large cloves of garlic, sliced
½ cup soy sauce
2 tbsp cooking wine/sake/sherry
2 tbsp sugar
½ cup water
6 pork hock bones
3 green onion
1 Fuji apple
2 medium-sized yellow onions
1½ tbsp fresh grated ginger or 2 tsp prepackaged ginger paste
3 cloves of garlic, quartered
2 tbsp sesame oil
12–16 cups water
Noodles
500 grams all-purpose flour or medium-strength flour
5 grams powdered kansui (see notes)
200 ml water
Potato or corn starch
Chashu
500 grams side pork
50 ml soy sauce
50 ml mirin
1 tbsp sugar
500 ml water
Procedure
Marinated eggs
Bring a pot of water to a rolling boil. If desired, use a small thumb tack to prick a pin hole in the base of every egg, then add eggs to the pot. The water should cover the eggs.
Wait for the water to come back to a full boil, then cook for 7–9 minutes. 9 minutes will give you a fully hard boiled egg, while 7 minutes makes a jammier egg.
Drain the pot and eggs and plunge the eggs in ice water to stop the cooking. This also makes the shells a bit easier to peel.
In a small pot, sauté pork, garlic, onions, and ginger until slightly browned. Add soy sauce, cooking alcohol, sugar, and water, and simmer for 10 minutes until pork is cooked through and flavors meld. Remove from stove.
Remove pork to eat separately. Pour everything else into a bowl large enough to hold marinade and eggs. Carefully, peel the eggs, and place in marinade. Try to make sure the marinade covers all of the eggs. If not, try transferring the sauce into a large ziplock bag, and place the eggs in the bag and seal.
Place the bag in a bowl, and put everything in the refrigerator overnight or at least for a few hours.
Using a butcher knife, separate off the pork hock bones.
Rinse well in running water to wash off the blood. Boil in large pot for 15 minutes and make sure you barely cover the bones with the water.
Skim off as much scum/foam as much possible as it forms.
Drain in colander and use a brush to remove any bloody meat.
Use a saw and cut halfway down the center of the bones. Then use hammer to break bone.
The bones will be filled with marrow. Simmer for several hours until the marrow dissolves out from the bones.
Scum will form at the start. Carefully skim the scum off. Maintain a low boil over medium heat.
After scum has stopped forming, simmer for 6 hours or more. Add more water if the water level drops.
2 hours after the pork bones have started simmering, the soup should become progressively white and cloudy. If tasted at this stage, the soup will not taste good since it will still have a raw flavor.
After the soup has simmered for 6 hours, the inside of the bones should be empty and the soup should have a rich smell just like a ramen place.
Chashu
Brown the meat in a pan and then simmer in a pot for 2 hours in a sauce made from the remaining ingredients. Allow to cool in the pot. The char siu should be a nice amber color. Slice with care since it will be very tender and tend to fall apart.
Noodles
Mix the flour and kansui together, then add the water. It may feel as if the amount of water is insufficient—this is normal.
Mix in bowl until a mealy consistency is achieved. The dough will be very stiff. Use you body weight to form the dough into a ball.
Transfer to kneading surface and knead. Knead vigorously for 10 minutes. It is okay if the dough cracks or does not knead together well.
Form into ball, cover with plastic wrap and allow to rest in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. Make sure that the dough does not dry out.
After the dough has rested, roll the dough out with a rolling pin to a thickness of 5 mm and then insert into pasta machine. Start out with the highest thickness and then continue on the lower settings until the desired thickness is achieved. If a pasta machine is not used, roll out the dough to the desired thickness with the rolling pin. Take into account that the noodles will expand 1.3 times when boiled.
The dough will not be that sticky, so a small amount of flour or potato (or corn) starch is sufficient for flouring.
A wooden box is best for storing the noodles, but if one is not available, use a metal tray lined with wax paper (to prevent sticking) and store in the refrigerator.
Assembly
Bring a pot of water to a boil, and add the noodles. Cook the noodles to each person’s preference, then drain. For people who like curly noodles, firmly squeeze the noodles until the desired effect is achieved.
Warm a large soup bowl, and add the drained noodles. Add broth, then top with char siu and marinated egg. Add salt for flavor—use sparingly at first and then add more if desired.
Notes, tips, and variations
Kansui is a Japanese mixture of alkaline salts. Try the Koon Chun brand, which comes in a clear glass bottle labeled “potassium carbonate & sodium bi-carbonate solution”. The UPC is 0-20717-80230-8.
Any leftover char siu can be eaten with beer. If you ever have trouble slicing soft pork, chill the whole piece in the refrigerator until cold, and it makes slicing easier. Reheating is easy, in either the microwave or oven, even stove top.
Make sure you keep up on scooping out the foamy gunk from the broth—you don't want all that stuff all over your ramen.
Don't be afraid to experiment with different types and balances of garnishes!

# Cookbook:Tri-Colored Autumn Rice Balls
Tri-colored autumn rice balls (san-shoku ohagi) is a simple a tea sweet, which was at one time served during the autumn equinox celebration. The name comes from a type of bush clover that only blooms in the fall. Serve these rice balls with your finest cup of tea.
Ingredients
3 cups prepared steamed sweet rice
¼ cup toasted black sesame seeds, lightly crushed
1 tablespoon sugar
1 cup smooth Japanese bean paste (koshi-an), chilled
½ cup roasted soybean powder (kinako) or toasted ground pecans
Procedure
Mix sesame seeds and sugar in a small bowl.
Moisten your hands with water and divide warm rice into 12 equal portions.
Shape 4 portions into balls. Moisten a clean dish towel and squeeze it dry.
Place 2½ tablespoons bean paste on towel; pat into a 4-inch circle.
Place 1 rice ball in the centre of the bean paste circle and use towel to mould bean paste around the rice ball.
Repeat this 3 more times, using another ½ cup of bean paste and the other 3 rice balls.
Place these on a nice serving tray. Flatten the remaining eight rice portions.
Form the remaining bean paste into 8 balls (about 2 teaspoons per ball). Place a bean paste ball in the centre of each piece of flattened rice and shape the rice around it.
Mould these stuffed rice balls into oval shapes. Roll 4 ovals in the sesame-sugar mixture. Roll the other 4 balls in the roasted soybean powder. Add these to the serving tray.

# Cookbook:Ume-shu (Japanese Plum Juice)
Ume juice is extracted by preserving the fruits in sugar. It tastes sweet, smooth, and acidic, and is a refreshing drink, often enjoyed in the summer. The taste and aroma of ume-shu can appeal to even those people who normally dislike the taste of alcohol.
Ingredients
1 kg raw Japanese ume plums
1 kg rock sugar
Honey to taste
White liquor to taste
Equipment
A container (preferably a sealable glassware)
Procedure
Wash plums and wipe dry.
Cram plums tightly into container with rock sugar. Add liquor if using.
Pour honey into container on top of ume.
Seal container, and leave in a cool, dark place until the plums are shriveled and leathery.
Remove fruit from container.
To drink, dilute the plum liquid with two times as much water.
Notes, tips, and variations
Keep in a cool place during summer.

# Cookbook:Yubeshi (Japanese Walnut Mochi Confection)
Ingredients
Cornstarch or potato starch, as needed
80 g kurozato (Japanese black sugar)
½ tablespoon soy sauce
200 ml water
120 g sweet glutinous rice flour (shiratama-ko)
50 g walnuts, coarsely chopped
Procedure
Generously dust a cookie sheet with cornstarch.
Combine the sugar, soy sauce, and water in a saucepan. Simmer until the sugar fully dissolves, stirring so as not to burn.
Add the rice flour, and stir well to form a cohesive dough.
Transfer the dough to a microwave-safe container. Heat it in the microwave for 30–40 seconds, then take it out and mix well. Repeat this process until it is thoroughly brown.
Mix the walnuts into the dough.
Pat the dough evenly onto the prepared cookie sheet in a layer about 5 cm (2 in) thick. If it's too hot, let it cool a bit first.
Dust the top of the dough with additional starch. Let cool fully.
Cut the confection into pieces.

# Cookbook:Bibimbap
Bibimbap (also called Bibimba or Bibimbop) is a typical Korean meal that literally means "mixed rice". The meal consists of a bowl of steamed white rice topped with vegetables, beef (sometimes tofu or chicken to suit tastes), a whole egg, and gochujang (Korean chili pepper paste). Gochujang is usually served separately to control the spiciness of the dish. It is often made vegetarian by substituting tofu for beef. Dolsot Bibimbap is a variation where the dish is served in a very hot stoneware bowl, crisping the rice and cooking the egg.
The ingredients below are the most typical of the dish although many other ingredients are often served on the side depending on the cooks preferences. The quantity shown serves 3. If your bowls are large, you can pack more into each and share them.
Ingredients
Carrot namul
2 small carrots
2 tbsp sesame oil
2 tbsp ground sesame seeds
¼ tsp grated garlic
1–2 pinches salt
Spinach namul
10 oz fresh spinach
1 tbsp sesame oil
2 tsp ground sesame seeds
¼ tsp grated garlic
Bean sprout namul
8 oz bean sprouts, with beans attached
2 tsp sesame oil
1 tsp ground sesame seeds
¼ tsp grated garlic
1 pinch salt
Beef soboro
1 tbsp olive or other oil
1 lb steak
¼ cup soy sauce
1 tbsp sesame oil
1 tbsp ground sesame seeds
¼ tsp grated garlic
Assembly
¾–1 ½ cup white rice, steamed
3 eggs, cooked over easy
¾ cup kimchi
1 cucumber, cut into strips
Gochujang
1 tbsp vegetable oil
Procedure
Carrot namul
Cut the carrots into matchsticks.
Boil matchsticks in a covered pot of salted water for a few minutes. Drain.
Rinse carrots with cold water until cool. Drain again, then put in a bowl.
Add the sesame oil, ground sesame seeds, grated garlic, and salt. Toss together with your fingers.
Spinach namul
Put the spinach in a large covered pot with 1 inch of water.
Bring to a boil and cook as usual. Stir occasionally to keep the spinach from sticking to the pot. The spinach is done when it's dark green and reduced to a small fraction of its original volume.
Drain the cooked spinach. Cool by adding cold water to the pot and drain again. Squeeze the spinach in your hands to remove the water.
Slice the cooked spinach into 1-inch pieces.
Put the cooked spinach in a bowl with the sesame oil, ground sesame seeds, and grated garlic. Mix with your fingers.
Bean sprout namul
Blanch the bean sprouts in a pot of salted water until they become clear.
Drain the cooked sprouts, and transfer to a bowl.
Toss with sesame oil, ground sesame seeds, grated garlic, and salt.
Beef soboro
Slice the steak thinly, but not paper-thin.
Heat the oil in a large frying pan on high heat. When the oil is hot, but not smoking, add the beef. Stir-fry.
While the beef is cooking, add the sesame oil, ground sesame seeds, and grated garlic. Cook until the meat is well browned.
Add the soy sauce. Continue cooking until the liquid has boiled off.
Assembly
Place rice in each bowl.
Arrange the prepared namuls, beef soboro, cucumbers, and egg on top of the rice. They should be arranged separately and attractively. The egg sits in the middle. Gochujang, kimchi, and any other root or leafy vegetable is served on the side in small individual bowls for the table to help themselves.
If using dolsots (Korean stoneware bowls) to serve your bibimbap, the preparation is slightly different:
Rub the inside of the dolsots with sesame oil.
Spread the cooked rice evenly over the bottom of the dolsots and part way up the sides. Place the namurus and the beef soboro on top of the rice, each in its own area.
Cover the dolsots and cook over medium-high heat. Watch carefully near the end to avoid burning the rice on the bottom. To test, use a spoon to scrape the rice from the side. Remember that the bottom cooks more than the sides and that the rice keeps cooking after you remove it from the heat. Do not preheat the dolsots.
Add an uncooked egg to the middle of each dolsot.
Serve dolsots on small pieces of wood to keep the heat from damaging the table.
Serving
To eat, start by scraping the rice from the bottom and stirring the ingredients together with a metal spoon. The egg will cook as it breaks up. The rice on the bottom will be crunchy and sometimes hard to remove unless you continue stirring as you eat.
Notes, tips, and variations
Sesame seeds expand when ground; 2 or 3 tablespoons of sesame seeds will make ¼ cup of ground sesame seeds.
Vegetables that can be served on the side (in small individual bowls) include lettuce, shiitake mushrooms, doraji namul, kong namul, gaji namul, sukju namul, gosari namul, and hobak namul. Other ingredients like dried sesame seeds and gim (seaweed) are added to the mix at varying times, depending on personal taste.

# Cookbook:Bulgogi
Ingredients
1 lb (450 g) beef suitable for grilling, sliced as thin as possible
3 green onions, sliced on the bias
4 button mushrooms (optional), sliced
½ onion (optional), thinly sliced
¾ cup soy sauce
¼ cup white granulated sugar
¼ cup (4 tbsp) sesame oil
4 tsp pepper
1–2 tbsp minced garlic
1 tbsp mirin (optional)
Procedure
Combine all the ingredients in a big bowl. Marinate for at least 30 minutes, but marinating overnight will get the best flavor and tenderization.
Grill the beef.
Serve with rice.
Notes, tips, and variations
Use same amount of soy sauce and sugar.
If you do this a day ahead, reduce the amount of soy sauce and don't forget to put it in a refrigerator.
Use thinly-sliced beef, available specifically for Bulgogi in some grocery stores, for best results.
You can grill this on a table top, with a shallow pan. You can also use just a normal fry pan.
Grill over medium-high heat and have the juice of beef and vegetables on rice.
You may marinate the beef in cola (Coca-Cola works best) instead of using just sugar. The extra liquid helps the meat to absorb the marinade more quickly.
You can also add 1 finely-chopped or grated Korean pear to your marinade overnight in lieu of sugar or cola. This will help tenderize the meat.

# Cookbook:Cabbage Kimchi
Kimchi (김치), also spelled kimchee or gimchi, is a Korean dish of pickled vegetables, usually napa cabbage or Korean radish and is commonly served as a side dish. It is usually fermented in a brine of anchovy sauce, ginger, garlic, green onion, and chilli pepper. There are countless varieties—at least as many as there are households. The following is a standard recipe for baechoo kimchi (napa-cabbage kimchi), a common variety and often the first kind of kimchi that jumps to mind for non-Koreans.
Ingredients
1 head napa cabbage (baechu, Chinese cabbage, wombok)
½ cup sea salt (or any coarse salt)
1 cup water
2 tbsp minced garlic
1 tsp minced ginger
½ cup gochugaru (Korean chile flakes)
2 tsp salt
1 tbsp sugar
¼ cup aekjeot (Korean fish sauce)
½ onion, thinly sliced
¼ carrot, thinly julienned
¼ Korean radish (muwoo), thinly julienned
4 green onions, cut into 3-cm pieces
Procedure
Quarter the napa cabbage, wash, and drain.
Combine coarse sea salt and water.
Put cabbages in salted water and take out one at a time to get salt down.
Add cabbages to a container. Pour salted water over top, and set aside for at least 6–8 hours (overnight is great). The cabbage should be soft enough to bend.
Wash cabbages and drain well.
Combine gochugaru, salt, sugar, jeot gal (Korean fish sauce), minced garlic, and minced ginger.
Mix the onion, carrot, radish, and green onion into the chilli powder mixture.
Take one cabbage, and stuff the above mixture between every layer.
Try to fold the cabbage in half. With 2 outer leaves, wrap the whole thing securely.
Put cabbages in an airtight container, and let it sit at room temperature overnight.
Refrigerate for 2–3 days at minimum. After a few days, you will notice some liquid. This is totally normal and a sign that the kimchi is ripening.
Enjoy your kimchi!
Notes, tips, and variations
Korean radishes are large (about ½ to 1 kilogram). Japanese (daikon) radishes or a larger quantity of small European radishes could substitute.
The brine can be varied to include many other ingredients. Be creative.
The aekjeot can be replaced with moderate amounts of saeujeot (Korean salted tiny shrimp), raw butterfish, or raw oysters. Seafood can also be left out entirely, although an appropriate amount of salt needs to be added in place of missing jeot gal. Alternative flavors can include Asian pears or tangerines.

# Cookbook:Dalgona Coffee
Dalgona coffee (달고나 커피) is a refreshing, cold drink originating from South Korea.
Ingredients
2 tbsp instant coffee
2 tbsp sugar
2 tbsp warm water
Ice cubes (optional—you can omit if you're using hot milk if you prefer hot coffee)
Procedure
Put instant coffee and sugar in a bowl.
Gradually add water while whipping with a hand mixer (highly recommended; if not available, manually whisk the mixture up to 400 times).
Pour milk in a cup, add ice cubes, and add the cream on top.

# Cookbook:Euneo-juk (Korean Sweetfish Porridge)
Euneojuk is a traditional Korean food. In English, it can be translated as sweetfish porridge.
Ingredients
180 g uncooked rice
200 g whole sweetfish, cleaned and gutted
2 L water
Doenjang
Gochujang
Fresh ginger
50 g water celery (Oenanthe javanica) greens
30 g crown daisy greens
30 g green chili, sliced
10 g perilla leaves, sliced
Procedure
Soak rice in cold water.
Remove fish viscera, and wash fish well in cold water. Place fish in a pot and cover with water. Boil until the fish is cooked through.
Remove the fish, and save the cooking water. Remove the fish flesh from the bones, and reserve it. If desired, return the remaining fish carcass to the cooking water and continue cooking to make a stronger broth. Remove the fish carcass.
Add the doenjang, gochujang, and ginger to the fish broth.
Drain the rice and add to the broth. Cook until rice is tender.
Add water celery, crown daisy, chili, and perilla leaves to the soup.
Simmer soup until greens are cooked as desired.
Return the cooked fish meat to the soup, and serve.
References
http://koreanfood.rda.go.kr Bonghwa agriculture tech center (봉화군농업기술센터, 봉화의 맛을 찾아서, 2001)

# Cookbook:Gimbap
Gimbap is a popular snack or lunch dish in Korea. Its primary ingredients are gim (sheets of dried seaweed) and bap (rice).
Ingredients
Yellow pickled daikon radish
Spinach
Sesame oil
Sesame seeds
Carrots
Ground pepper
Vegetable oil
Steamed short-grain or sushi rice
Gim seaweed
Tuna, ham, sausage, or any other kind of cooked meat
Special equipment
Bamboo gimbap/sushi rolling mat (gimbap mari)
Procedure
Slice radish lengthwise, about 1 cm thick.
Boil water and add spinach. Boil for about 10 seconds, then drain it.
Rinse the spinach with cold water, and squeeze all the water out. Season with salt, sesame oil, and sesame seeds.
Shred carrots about 2 inches (5 cm) long. Stir-fry it with salt, pepper, and vegetable oil. You don’t have to cook it all the way through.
Crack about 4–5 eggs into a little bowl. Mix well, and season with salt and pepper. Transfer beaten eggs to a hot greased skillet, and cook like an omelet until it is solid. Cut lengthwise, about 1 cm thick.
Mix rice, 2 tbsp of oil, and sesame seed together.
Place the mat on a flat surface and place a sheet of seaweed on top. Spread a layer of seasoned rice on top of the seaweed, and arrange the eggs, carrots, spinach, radish, and meat on top of that in long strips.
Use the bamboo mat to tightly roll everything up, with the fillings on the inside and the seaweed on the outside.
If desired, slice the roll into rounds.
Notes, tips, and variations
Avoid spreading the rice too thick on the seaweed, which will make it hard to roll up.
Gimbap is good to pack for lunch or a snack, and it makes great picnic food.

# Cookbook:Korean Shortribs
Korean shortribs or bulgogi is a kind of Korean barbecue, using shortribs that have been marinated in soy sauce, scallion, ginger, chiles, garlic, and sesame oil. The marinated meat is then slow-grilled or baked.
Ingredients
⅓ cup soy sauce
4 scallions, chopped
6 cloves garlic, smashed and minced
1 ½ tbsp toasted sesame oil
2 tbsp minced fresh ginger
¼ cup canola oil
4 Thai bird chiles, stemmed
12 English-cut beef shortribs
Procedure
Process all ingredients except meat in a blender until smooth. Pour into a gallon size zip-top bag, and add shortribs.
Toss to coat the meat in the marinade, and refrigerate overnight. Note that this flavors but does not tenderize the meat.
Preheat grill to 225–300°F. Add shortribs and cover. Cook 5 hours or until meat falls right off the bone and is extremely tender. Serve immediately.

# Cookbook:Quail Egg and Chili Jangjorim
Jangjorim is Korean dish consisting mainly of boiled or braised beef and soy sauce. This version uses quail eggs.
Ingredients
Quail eggs
3 cups water
1 cup soy sauce
½ cup sugar
¼ cup refined rice wine
6 cloves garlic
3 slices of fresh ginger
3 dried red chile peppers
Procedure
Bring a pot of water to a boil. Add the quail eggs, and boil for about 10 minutes.
Carefully drain the eggs, and cool in cold water.
Peel the cooled eggs.
Combine the water, soy sauce, sugar, wine, garlic, and ginger in a saucepan. Bring to a boil.
Add the eggs to the pot, and simmer until the liquid is reduced by half.
Add the peppers, and cook just for 1–2 minutes.
Notes, tips, and variations
Adding 1 tablespoon each of salt and vinegar to the boiling water makes the eggs easier to peel.
Don't overcook after adding the chili pepper—it will get too soft.

# Cookbook:Bubble Tea
Bubble tea is a tea beverage with black tapioca pearls mixed in.
Ingredients
½ cup (125 ml) cooked boba tapioca pearls
1 cup (250 ml) crushed ice
1 cup (250 ml) very strong chilled black tea
1 cup (250 ml) milk, to taste
Honey or granulated sugar, to taste
Procedure
Place pearls in a large glass.
Combine all remaining ingredients in a cocktail shaker. Shake vigorously until mixture is frothy.
Pour into glass and serve with large-diameter straws.
Notes, tips, and variations
If you don't want the drink to be frothy, simply stir the ingredients together instead of shaking.

# Cookbook:Tea Eggs
Ingredients
6 chicken eggs
4 cups water
3 tbsp Jasmine green tea leaves
¼ tbsp dark soy sauce
½ tsp minced ginger
½ tsp minced garlic
Procedure
Bring water and spices to a boil.
Add eggs, and boil for 3 minutes.
Remove eggs from the liquid and roll them gently on a hard surface to crack the shell all over.
Return the eggs to the pot of liquid, reduce to a simmer, and simmer for 1 hour.
Reduce to low heat and allow eggs to sit in brine until served.
